in order for a txt msg to be sent . 1 . sender phone sends it to their network 2 . their network sends it to your network 3 . your network sends it to your phone there could be a delay at any of these stages . if you 're getting txts from different people , most likely there is a delay in # 3 . your network could not send it to your phone , so once it has signal it sends it all at once .
It 's advertising . They hope that you like your free thing so much that you come back for more ( or refer friends ) . Usually the giveaway is pretty cheap for them . If it 's something that costs more than $ 20 to buy and you 're getting it free with no strings attached , then I 'd start to think maybe a scam is afoot .
First of all , if you want to lose fat diet is the absolute # 1 factor in doing so . There are lots of subreddits ( /loseit , /fitness , /paleo , etc ) that have advice on what to eat and how to eat properly . Most people ( including myself ) grew up with a culture that did not teach them how to eat well . The easiest starting point imo is to simply cut out all calories from beverages ( mainly soda / beer ) and eliminate unnecessary sugars from your diet but read up on the various eating styles and decide which one sounds viable to you . Bottom line , if you do not eat properly you will not lose fat . Secondly , exercising to lose fat is all about * * intensity * * . Cardio OR resistance training ? Negative , you will want to do both , and do them well . They will both help you in order to lose fat but lifting 5 lb dumbells or walking at 2 mph probably will not help you lose weight any faster . Recommending a specific program for you to do depends on your current level of ability . Generally , starting out a weight lifting program someone will probably link to something like [ this . ] ( URL_0 ) However , if you can not do these exercises properly ( good form , avoid injuries ) you may want
The short answer is that it depends on the industry. In other words, margin alone - even in comparison to peers - will not be a sufficient index to track company success. I'll mention Apple quickly as a special case that has managed to charge a premium margin for a mass-market product. Few companies can achieve this. As with all investment analysis, you need to have a very clear understanding of the industry (i.e. what is "normal" for debt/equity/gearing/margin/cash-on-hand) as well as of the barriers-to-entry which competitors face. A higher-than-normal margin may swiftly be undermined by competitors (Apple aside). Any company offering perpetual above-the-odds returns may just be a Ponzi scheme (Bernie Maddof, etc.). More important than high-margins or high-profits over some short-term track is consistency of approach, an ability to whether adverse cyclical events, and deep investment in continuity (i.e. the entire company doesn't come to a grinding halt when a crucial staff-member retires).
I 'm actually in speech therapy , and my therapist is big into choir / choral work . He told me that it 's a combination of your vocal cords being relaxed and being more massive from mucus buildup overnight . These things cause them to vibrate more slowly . As you speak or sing during the day , they tighten and shake off the mucus , vibrating faster and sounding higher .
Because the rotor disc ( plane the main rotors travel in ) of a helicopter is n't fixed . How a helicopter maneuvers in the fore and aft , left and right directions is by tilting that disc ( plane of rotating blades ) in the direction you want to travel . Most helicopter rotors have a wide range of motion . With the helicopter on the ground , and the collective neutral ( blades tilted so they are n't providing lift ) you can articulate the disc down to head chopping height pretty easily . This is why you never approach a ' turning ' helicopter without the pilot signalling , so they have positive control of the cyclic in a neutral ( level ) position . Actually , depending on the terrain , you may have to tilt the disc away from loading and unloading passengers so they can safely get in and out . A good gust can tilt the disc in random directions if you are n't actively on the cyclic , which you always should be if your bird is turning . Source : Was AH-1W / UH-1N mechanic in the Marines for 5 years , worked on turning helicopters a lot . I also have my private helicopter license in the US . EDIT : I 'll post a vid if I can find it . 2- Ca n't find it . it was a video of a Huey on the ground with blades
Gameshows are either big commercials ( like The Price is Right where the prizes are given to them in exchange for describing the products in detail ) , or their sponsors pay the prizes . Jeopardy , for example , has 1 on - air talent getting a salary , and 3 on - air talents ( contestants ) where 2 are basically doing it for free , and one gets paid maybe 10k-20k ? Ignoring production crew , which every show has , that 's an awfully cheap way to generate 30 minutes of television when you 're only paying half of the people who are on the screen .
The sun 's radiation breaks down the molecules that make up the paint or dye . They break down into different molecules that reflect the light differently . That 's why things change colour in the sun \- sometimes they do n't even turn white , they just turn a different colour , because the pigments have been broken down into different substances .
The Service Industry is a much larger component of the economy . So once we have machines helping us make things and grow things , people end up spending more time doing intellectual things . Like making apps for phones , or studying the environmental impacts of stormwater run - off and engineering solutions . Or being yoga instructors , or bankers , or chefs or waiters . Or repair workers . So there will always be service workers and information workers .
> Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , * * or prohibiting the free exercise thereof * * ; * * or abridging the freedom of speech * * , or of the press ; * * or the right of the people peaceably to assemble * * , and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances . The First Amendment says nothing about forcing people to play nice or accept others .
The really , really , short version : -Banks are not evil . They are a place to store your money . They pool everyone 's money together and use it to invest in other companies . You are rewarded with a tiny piece of the earnings as interest . Banks are important because they allow your money to be in multiple places at once . Some bankers may cheat , but the banking system itself is a good thing . -"Money " is different than " currency " . Currency is simply a way to store the value inherent in our goods or skills . When we create new things , our wealth increases , as measured by the Gross Domestic Product . Just printing more dollar bills does not create anything that we value - it 's just a piece of paper . When the amount of currency increases without an equal increase in GDP , the true value of the currency decreases . This is called inflation .
You 're referring to the ' bilateral symmetry ' of many organisms . It evolved a really long time ago - hundreds of millions of years ago . Other organisms ( e.g. , starfish ) do n't have bilateral symmetry and have higher degrees of symmetry ( you can divide a starfish along any one of five lines and get two matching halves ) . As far as * why * bilateral symmetry evolved ... you 'd have to go back 500 million years and observe the environment to understand what advantages bilateral symmetry gave the first organism to have it . Once it evolved , though , it just hung around - and all the organisms descended from the first bilateral organism are bilateral too .
Normally , the top layer of your skin is made up of what are basically the husks of dead skin cells ( stratum corneum ) . Under this thin layer are tightly connected skin cells for several layers making up the majority of the epidermis . Under the epidermis is the dermis , which is mostly made of connective tissue ( regularly organized strands of protein like collagen ) and some immune cells , fat cells , and connective tissue cells . When the skin is injured down to the dermis or even deep into the epidermis , all of the cells in the area try to heal the wound . The skin cells that were damage / killed are cleared away , and the healthy skin cells try to proliferate into the wound to regenerate the damaged tissue . The problem is that the cells that lay down the connective tissue proteins ( collagen , fibrin , and others ) produce the proteins rapidly and in a disorganized fashion . So the tissue ' heals ' with a scar faster than it can ' regenerate ' well organized skin tissue . Once the wound is healed , even if it is with a collagen scar , the cells in the area responsible for wound healing ( macrophages and fibroblasts ) are all like : " well , nothing 's getting in here " and go about their business maintaining the dermal layer . So , while normal skin renews
As to where the interest comes from: The same place it comes from in other kinds of savings accounts. The bank takes the money you deposit and invests it elsewhere, traditionally by lending it out to others (hence the concept of a "savings and loan" bank). They make a profit as long as the interest they give for "borrowing" from you, plus the cost of administering the savings accounts and loans, is less than the interest they charge for lending to others. No, they don't have to pay you interest -- but if they didn't, you'd be likely to deposit your funds at another bank which did. Their ideal goal is to pay as little as possible without losing depositors, while charging as much as possible without losing borrowers. (yeah, I know, typo corrected) Why do they get higher interest rate than they pay you? Mostly because your deposits and interest are essentially guaranteed, whereas the folks they're lending to may be late paying or default on those loans. As with any kind of investment, higher return requires more work and/or higher risk, plus (ususally) larger reserves so you can afford to ride out any losses that do occur.
Perhaps the OP did search , but is seeking a new perspective ? Here 's mine : Socialism is when the government takes care of basic needs , cradle to grave . Examples include free health care , education ( especially college ) , day care , retirement , nursing homes , and burial . This is paid for with personal income taxes . Read about Norway and Finland , they have a very long history of socialism .
Okay there are some good responses so far but it really comes down to the combination of a couple of thing ; 1 . Jamaica is a small and quite poor country , they do n't have the resources to support any sport with any real financial barrier to entry . Running is free , other than a pair of shoes which you need anyway . 2 . While rich countries have the resources to support athletes across a wide spectrum of sports , smaller and poorer countries tend to focus in on 1 or 2 sports which may give them some international recognition . For Kenya its long distance , for Jamaica that 's sprinting , etc . Which sport a poor or small county winds up focusing on also depends on cultural and historical factors that I am not qualified to mouth off about .
It depends on many factors : what age you are . In general , the younger you are- the more you need . 8 hours is usually a minimum for an adult , but it can also depend on how active your life is , etc . Here is a tip for waking up more easily though : Set two alarms : one when you have to wake up , and another that is 90 minutes before that . Have a glass of water by your bed . When the first alarm goes off , wake up and drink some water , then go back to bed . Because sleep happens in ~90 minute cycles , you will wake up and reset that cycle . The next time you wake up , you will be approximately coming out of the cycle instead of in the middle of it . Drinking the water will help prevent dehydration , which is very common when you sleep and contributes strongly to drowsiness when waking up . In addition to these , it helps to wake up at the same time every day , regardless of what time you go to bed . This regulates your internal clock and helps you wake up naturally at that time .
A Graph neural network (GNN) is a class of artificial neural networks for processing data that can be represented as graphs. In the more general subject of "Geometric Deep Learning", certain existing neural network architectures can be interpreted as GNNs operating on suitably defined graphs. Convolutional neural networks, in the context of computer vision, can be seen as a GNN applied to graphs structured as grids of pixels. Transformers, in the context of natural language processing, can be seen as GNNs applied to complete graphs whose nodes are words in a sentence. The key design element of GNNs is the use of pairwise message passing, such that graph nodes iteratively update their representations by exchanging information with their neighbors. Since their inception, several different GNN architectures have been proposed, which implement different flavors of message passing. As of 2022[update], whether it is possible to define GNN architectures "going beyond" message passing, or if every GNN can be built on message passing over suitably defined graphs, is an open research question. Relevant application domains for GNNs include social networks, citation networks,[10] molecular biology,[11] chemistry,[12] physics[13] and NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems.[14] Several open source libraries implementing graph neural networks are available, such as PyTorch Geometric[15] (PyTorch), TensorFlow GNN[16] (TensorFlow), and jraph[17] (Google JAX).
The differences between water types are usually not things that " should " make you sick-- it 's bullshit that bottled water is " safer " ( it 's not tested or regulated more or better than tap water ) , but if bottled water was shipping with E. Coli or Giardia in it , everybody would hear about it and that water would likely be recalled . There is also concern that the plastic may be bad but this is more of a long - term issue and whether it 's legitimate at all is controversial . In reality it 's probably the taste that 's unfamiliar and causes your body to react badly . That may be " all in your head " but does n't mean the effect is n't real ! Some other factors that do n't make it unsafe but might make it distasteful would be temperature of the water , and the overall appearance and experience of drinking from a plastic bottle . All of these are shown to change people 's satisfaction with a beverage .
So energy can be emitted in many kind of waves usually infrared for room temperature things . We are continuously radiating . Now if something has so much energy in it ( heat ) it can release even more energy slipping into the visible light spectrum allowing us to see it . The term you could read up on is black body radiation .
In mathematics, statistics, finance, computer science, particularly in machine learning and inverse problems, regularization is a process that changes the result answer to be "simpler". It is often used to obtain results for ill-posed problems or to prevent overfitting. Although regularization procedures can be divided in many ways, following delineation is particularly helpful: In explicit regularization, independent of the problem or model, there is always a data term, that corresponds to a likelihood of the measurement and a regularization term that corresponds to a prior. By combining both using Bayesian statistics, one can compute a posterior, that includes both information sources and therefore stabilizes the estimation process. By trading off both objectives, one chooses to be more addictive to the data or to enforce generalization (to prevent overfitting). There is a whole research branch dealing with all possible regularizations. The work flow usually is, that one tries a specific regularization and then figures out the probability density that corresponds to that regularization to justify the choice. It can also be physically motivated by common sense or intuition. In machine learning, the data term corresponds to the training data and the regularization is either the choice of the model or modifications to the algorithm. It is always intended to reduce the generalization error, i.e. the error score with the trained model on the evaluation set and not the training data. One of the earliest uses of regularization is Tikhonov regularization, related to the method of least squares.
Pro circumcision : easy to keep clean , looks like mushroom , may or may not decrease sensitivity . Con circumcision : babies hate getting their foreskin cut off and may or may not subconsciously hate you for it . May decrease sensitivity . Pro foreskin : penis looks like it 's wearing a hoodie , easy to masturbate without lube , no subconscious baby - hate . Thermal layer if it 's cold . Con foreskin : you got ta wash a lot , otherwise it 's gon na get stinky and if you 're really leaving it , infected . Some may find it " looks weird " ( mainly in places where circumcision is widespread like the US ) .
Another answer you have n't really got here yet ( although hooj has answered the main question ): AMD and Intel both make x86 CPU 's . That is to say , CPU 's that use the x86 instruction set . This is where they are most often compared as when it comes down to it , an Intel chip and an AMD chip will do about the same thing just at different speeds , with different levels of efficiency and a different price point . HOWEVER , neither company makes just CPU 's . AMD , as you probably know , bought out ATI and produce some excellent graphics chips . Intel has their own graphics chips but they 're generally not considered to be as powerful as AMD 's discrete ( Read : Separate , not built into the CPU itself ) graphics chips . Intel also manufactures flash memory , which I believe AMD does not . In terms of size , Intel is significantly bigger than AMD as well for various reasons . So far , between the two , Intel are the only ones to have released chips designed for smartphones , but Intel 's efforts have n't properly taken off yet and AMD is planning to make some of their own . Interestingly , in this field intel is concentrating on making their x86 chips small and efficient enough to fit into smartphones , while AMD is opting to ditch x86 and instead license
During the 30 years war in the 1600s France hired some Croatian mercenaries and these mercenaries used cloth similar to a tie to tie closed the top of their jacket . The Parisians thought this was a fashionable look and adopted wearing cravats which would evolve into today 's necktie . Fashion and tradition are why we currently wear ties they serve no practical purpose .
It 's just not a very good game . There are some who enjoy it anyway , just like there are people who genuinely like Seltzer & Friedberg movies , but it 's a low - quality game . Expectations are always high for Blizzard titles , so that made D3 's flaws even more glaring . In my opinion , Blizzard tried too hard to make the game a cash vehicle via their RMAH , and this sucked all the fun and soul out of it . Playing D3 feels so hollow and meaningless , and the hamfisted shove towards the RMAH just sucks the fun out of the experience even though I do n't actually use it . On top of this , the game mechanics are simply bad and the gameplay is way too frustrating and primitive . They dumbed it down so much but still managed to create so many features that are irritating , like giving elites four or five different types of crowd control or making 30 % of the game 's enemies flee from you on sight so you have to spend ten times as long chasing them down as it would have taken to simply beat them in a fight . These are things that just are n't enjoyable , and while they could be patched away with time , the game is obviously designed to funnel revenue through the RMAH and this is what really kills it . I think Blizzard
In the oldest phone networks ( like you see in old movies ) , every call went through an operator who connected your line to another . You had the entire wire to yourself . As phone networks grew , this became unfeasible . At some point in the growth , they needed to find a way to cram multiple calls onto a single " trunk " line . They realized that if they filtered the frequencies the system could transmit to a narrow band ( that closely matched the human voice ) & then shifted the pitch up or down , they could * multiplex * a number of conversations onto a single line ( and then un - shift them at the other end ) . Music sounds like crap when you start filtering out all the high frequencies . This is also why dial - up modems never went faster than 56k .
I 'm in a union . Running the hall is n't cheap . Dues pay for building and wages of those working in the hall . My union has about 1200 people , but we have to maintain 3 offices to cover the whole state . 6 business assistants , 1 business manager , 6 secretaries ( also in a secretary union ) , and 3 dispatchers . That 's a lot of money in human resources . For what I pay , the hall has my back . Unless you are completely negligent or willfully doing the wrong thing , the hall will keep you working .
It does far less to you and is far less damaging than the rest that you have listed . Marijuana arguably safer than Alcohol and Nicotine in terms of a drug . Heroin and Cocaine are far more addictive , do a lot of damage to you , especially long term . You need to keep taking more and more of the drug in order to get the same hit , which usually leads to a life of crime in order to fund the habit . Though there are plenty of ' functional ' cocaine addicts around . Especially in high pressure jobs like Stock Brokers / Banks and Sales .
Oxygen ( O2 ) is highly reactive . Nitrogen ( N2 ) is extremely stable by comparison because the element itself does n't pull as hard on electrons and it is bonded with a triple - bond instead of a double - bond like oxygen . On the other side of oxygen , there is florine , which is stupidly reactive to the point where it does n't last very long in nature , and will bond with * something * almost immediately . Oxygen is available enough and much easier to work with than nitrogen .
You can read why the NEA opposes it [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . While there is some argument that they favor unions - the overall argument is that vouchers have not shown that they lead to any better success than their respective counterparts in public schools ( i.e. low income students in public schools did no better than low income students getting a voucher to attend private school ) . Moreover , vouchers allow the state to fund religious organizations . Sure , sending public money to a Catholic School sounds great - but then you would also have to send money to fund madrasas and maybe the Church of Satan would like to set up Satan Worship Elementary and the state would have to fund that too .
People believe Socialism is bad for several reasons . I will give you my opinion as a US person who does not particularly like Socialism . The chief reason is the belief that Socialism means taking money from a person who earned it and giving it to a person who did not . That is the de - facto definition of Socialism in the US . Please feel free to provide any other definition you would like , but nobody in the US will accept it as a definition of Socialism . Call it another thing because that word is poison . You can even be correct if you want . It does not matter . That is what the word means here . Here are some more reasons if you are bored and want to read them . In the US , Socialism has a connotation that you may find at odds with a dictionary definition or your own personal opinion of what Socialism would mean if implemented . The common understanding of Socialism in the US includes : . Association with atrocities in USSR and China due to central planning and control of food . Redistribution of wealth . Centralized control . Intrinsic value of labor over value . Implicit trust in government over individual judgment I can not stress enough the association in the US with the most famous historical attempts at socialized economies and the disastrous results . You may argue that socialism was not to
Air bends light , and the more dense the air , the more light is bent . When all the air is about the same temperature , all the light is bent by the same amount , so you do n't notice . But when it goes from cold to hot back to cold , it takes a wiggly pattern that distorts the image .
How do the dishes work ? Direct TV has STATIONARY dishes affixed to the houses of it 's subscribers . Where are those satellite dishes pointing ? How many satellites does DTV have floating in the sky that there s always one in the air aligned directly with every dish on every house across the world ? How come we do n't lose connection whenever a satellite orbits to the other side of the earth ?
If you paid by credit card, file a dispute with the credit card company. They will credit you the money immediately while they investigate. The burden of proof will then be on the merchant. Keep your documents handy in case you need them: USPS receipt, proof of delivery, copies of all correspondance, etc. File the credit card chargeback now, because there are time limits. The FTC has more information.
Here 's the skinny on this . There is the technically correct answer , and there 's the answer that uses modern terminology ( which is kind of wrong ) I would say that , technically , a modem is a device that * * MO**dulates and * * DEM**odulates a signal . Computers use electricity to communicate , which we represent as " 1"s and " 0"s . By manipulating the voltage of a wire in your ethernet card , your computer can effectively turn wires " off " and " on . " Think of " 1 " being equal to " on " and " 0 " being equal to " off . " These are the only two states a part of a signal can be in , there is no in between . Most infrastructure is set up to send analog signals , not digital ones . We are really good at transmitting data correctly at long distances ( e.g. between your house and your ISP 's building 15 miles away ) using analog signals . An analog signal is like the digital one , except any state can exist between 1 / on and 0 / off . A modem allows for the communication between digital devices on media that transmits analog signals . A router allows two or more networks to talk to each other . A network is a logical entity that is divided based on some agreed upon protocol , usually
It 's not known , but there is some speculation . Essentially , the various grammatical markers that indicate grammatical gender may be ultimately derived from the language 's words for " man " and " woman " , or " he " and " she " , for example , originally only used for people , then all animals . This then became a way to categorize other nouns as well . Somtimes , the connection is not too hard to understand . For example , in ancient societies there were gods and goddesses associated with all sorts of things . The sun might be seen as having male qualities -- it 's strong at any rate -- and so to the Romans , Sol , the sun - deity , was clearly a male god , which is why , for example , the French word for " the sun " , " le soleil " , is masculine ; the moon , on the other hand , being much more gentle , was ruled by a goddess , Luna , hence the French word for " the moon " , " la lune " , which is feminine . Another way of assigning grammatical gender is by the form of the word itself . Once you have established a list of masculine words and a list of feminine words , you might notice that masculine words follow a certain pattern , while feminine words follow a different
Normal water is hypotonic or isotonic to your cells , meaning that there is a higher concentration of water outside your cells than in them . This causes water to flow into your cells due to the pressure of the water outside being greater than the pressure of the water inside . This is called osmosis , and it is how your body gets hydrated . Saltwater is hypertonic to your cells , which is the opposite of hypotonic . This causes water to flow out of your cells because the dissolved minerals and particulates in the water lowers the concentration of the saltwater outside your cells , making it less than the concentration of water inside your cells . This loss of water is called reverse osmosis , and this is how your cells become dehydrated . You can see this in action by cutting a carrot in half and salting the cut surface . After a few minutes , the cut surface will be wet , as the salt has drawn water out of the carrot 's cells . Alternatively , pure water ( not purified , as that still has dissolved minerals in it , but 100 % H2O ) is VERY hypotonic to your cells , causing more water to flow into the cells and inflating the cell to larger proportions than the cell membrane can handle , which makes your cells burst . Pure water will cause stomach ulcers if drank frequently enough .
Translation is a very complex process .. anyway let me give you an outline Its like Lock and Key .. each set of 3 nucleotide corresponds to particular ammio acids .. sometimes more that one type corresponds to particular ammio acid So ribosome starts to read your mRNA strand and accordinly you will get ammio acids attached one by one untill you reach an set of nucleotide which corresponds to no particlar ammio acid .. /// Okay sorry I ca nt explain like 5 any more .. I do nt know how much detail you want .. better try [ /r / askscience](/r / askscienc ) or [ /r / biology](/r / biology )
I 've found that a good way to stop them is to dab a little bit of NewSkin onto the areas . I also like to use it on the area behind my cuticle , where little pieces of skin tend to pull up and then catch on everything . Just make sure to get the NewSkin with the brush , not the spray .
The short answer is yes you can, but you have to make sure you do it correctly. If you are employed by a tech company that does contract work at a separate location and you don't get reimbursed by your employer for travel expenses, you can claim the mileage between your home and location B as a business expense, but there's a catch - you have to subtract the mileage between your home and location A (your employer). So if it's 20 miles from your house to your employer (location A), and 30 miles from your house to the business you're contracting at (location B), you can only claim 10 miles each way (so 20 miles total). Obviously if the distance to location B is closer than your employer (location A), you're out of luck. You will have to itemize to take this deduction, by filling out a Schedule A for itemized deductions and Form 2106 to calculate how much of a deduction for travel expenses you can take. Google "should i itemize", if you're unsure whether to take the Standard Deduction or Itemize. Sources:
While it 's common to anthropomorphize ants when talking about them ( queen , workers , soldiers etc ) it 's very important to remember that ants are n't strictly intelligent . They have very complex behaviours that have evolved during a very , very long time , but the underlying reasons for the things ants do are all responses and instincts that are biological , not anything that we would recognize as intelligent . An ant queen does n't sit in her lair plotting the downfall of the neighbouring ant hill or draw plans for resource - scavenging . The only " foreign policy " ants have is that anything foreign gets killed and/or eaten , and they determine what 's what by smell . If you put a beetle in a colony of ants it can often survive long enough to start smelling like the ant colony because of it 's shell , and the ants will start leaving it alone even if it treats the larvae chambers like an all you can eat buffet . That 's how simple the mechanics of it are , that if something that smells right is eating ant larvae right in front of an ant , it will be left alone , but if an ant from the same colony somehow gets the wrong scent or loses it 's familiar colony scent , it will be attacked by the other ants . Ants will attack and fight other ants to extinction
No there would n't , assuming they are completely identical apart from the data . The data is encoded as the direction of the magnetic field in a cell . So a magnetic field pointing one way would be 1 , and a field pointing the opposite way would be 0 . Both these states weigh the same . Of course , in reality the hard drives would n't be completely identical anyway , so there would definitely be some tiny weight difference .
It's not abnormal for a company that is as young as yours seems to be. It seems (based on what little I know), that you have debts, or accounts payable that were formerly covered by the $200 cash, but now aren't, because you paid it to yourself. For now, you're "entitled" to pay yourself a draw or a salary. But if you continue to do so without earning money to cover it, your company will fail.
To answer the comments section part of your question ask if you really know how much these trains cost vs how much people use them . Modern heavy transport is incredibly expensive to build as infrastructure , and only really suits the heaviest traveling routes . Inside a city , sure . City to city town to town , you owe a lot of what already exists to much older rail lines before cars were so easily accessible and highways so bountiful , before airplanes roamed the skies . But then a train does n't really finish the problem does it ? I take a train to small city 1 , how do I get around ? Subways are out of the question usually due to cost , busses are your best bet , but they have limited range and gaps . What about winter when you 're carrying home kids and a mile from the nearest bus stop carrying groceries . Lastly who pays ? You buy or lease your own car , most of the world gas taxes take care of the road , but an exceptionally good network of busses or whatever would be extremely expensive . So you think you can force everyone to cough up over 1 - 3k a year to pay into it ? For example an annual pass in Toronto is around $ 1500 last time I checked , it 's nowhere close to really covering the whole city without a lot
Having a certain blood type means having a particular variant of a protein * * in the membrane * * of the red blood cells . In the case of the ABO blood group system , the proteins are glycosylated ( i.e. complexed with a sugar molecules ) and subtle differences in the sugar chains confer the different blood types . In the case of the Rh antigen or Rhesus factor , the difference is in the amino acid sequence of the protein itself . There are a a lot more blood group systems than most people realize - it is my understanding that blood transfusions are generally matched in 8 - 12 different blood group types ( but do n't quote me on this , I am a biochemist / virologist , not a medic ) . Now it is important to realize , that * * many of these surface markers can also be found on other cells * * , e.g. the lining of your gut or your lungs . Most viruses that infect humans or animals are enveloped viruses : this means that the protein capsid protecting their nucleic acid genome is itself surrounded by a membrane . * * This membrane is derived from the the membrane of the host cell the virus was produced in and generally contains many of the other molecules commonly found in the membrane of that particular cell type . * * If you paid attention in immunology 101 ,
Because they decided that 88 mm was big enough to get the job done and not too big to be a waste of materials . 2 extra unneeded mm would increase costs more than you first imagine . The steel barrel would have to be bigger and thicker . The round would need to be bigger . It would need more explosive charge to fire it . You would need more trucks and gas to transport it . You ca n't afford to waste materials during war . Science and economics do n't care about round numbers . 88 is a * neo*-Nazi / white supremacy symbol , not a Nazi symbol . There were no neo - Nazis during WWII .
Every school / professor is different . In my school , the professor can decide their own grading scale . A 97 + is a A or 85 + . Or one of my previous professor decided to curve the grades , so in a class of 30 , he 'll only hand out 1 A , 4 Bs , 10Cs , 10 Ds , and the rest Fs . I got a C with a 85 , but one of my friend got an F with 75 which in most class will be a passing grade .
This is an interesting question that has been on people 's minds since the beginning of civilization . The fashion cycle is about as regular and predictable as the nitrogen cycle . Essentially , the lower class urban youth creates a trend using minimal materials , and it gets co - opted by artists and trendsetters . Once the trend has hit critical mass , stores will start marketing their own versions . In the USA , people sometimes think we invented the idea of stealing the culture of the lower class and selling it at the GAP , etc . In reality , this cycle has been happening for hundreds of years . Lower class trends in food , clothes , art , and speech have been copied by the wealthy in many different cultures . I know Lederhosen , the classic German cultural garb , were originally just functional clothing for peasants , but a trend arose where the upper class started making their own versions out of highly decorated fabric . The wealthy elite also started having field parties in rural settings , because the trend was to act like a peasant ( while still retaining all the comforts of home ) . So nowadays , design companies will employ " cool hunters " who seek out the most stylish trendy people in lower class neighborhoods . Not everything becomes a trend , but these people send their findings back to designers who adapt what they see
Through your question and then clarification through the comments, it looks like you have a U.S. LLC with at least two members. If you did not elect some other tax treatment, your LLC will be treated as a partnership by the IRS. The partnership should file a tax return on Form 1065. Then each partner will get a Schedule K-1 from the partnership, which the partner should use to include their respective shares of the partnership income and expenses on their personal Forms 1040. You can also elect to be taxed as an S-Corp or a C-Corp instead of a partnership, but that requires you to file a form explicitly making such election. If you go S-Corp, then you will file a different form for the company, but the procedure is roughly the same - Income gets passed through to the owners via a Schedule K-1. If you go C-Corp, then the owners will pay no tax on their own Form 1040, but the C-Corp itself will pay income tax. As far as whether you should try to spend the money as business expense to avoid paying extra tax - That's highly dependent on your specific situation. I'd think you'd want to get tailored advice for that.
It 's important to note that diplomats can be kicked out if they do something particularly bad . They can also be tried at home . Diplomats are carefully chosen to represent their country . . They 're not the sort of people that rob liquor stores and get into bar fights . That sort of behavior would get them recalled back home and their replacement would be left to apologize profusely . Most diplomats just end up with unpaid parking tickets and stupid shit like that .
Or better still , when you shut your ears with your fingers ! ! It is the same noise . The sounds are internal to the body and mostly * * from muscles fibers contracting ( and apparently with little contribution from sounds of blood flow which you can hear by putting a stethoscope on your blood vessels ) You hear them when you yawn because there is a tube that connects the throat to your ear and yawning reduces the pressure in the ears and cuts out outside noise . This is also why for a short while that you are yawning , you ca n't hear outside sounds . Instead the internal sounds get amplified and you can hear them . Same as when you close your ears . When you try and shut your eyes really tightly , you are also contracting the muscles of your jaw and neck which compress on the same tube connecting to your ears , giving the same results as above . The body is kinda cool is n't it ? this million year old hacked up contraption of flesh and blood that hosts our mind and consciousness ! _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Here are some previous answers with more details on the same question : [ URL_1 ] ( URL_1 ) [ URL_3 ] ( URL_3 ) [ URL_2 ] ( URL_2
These people are literally all wrong . The real answer depends what level you 're referring to . If you 're talking a global scale , it 's because of the increase in technology and the decrease of inefficiency in the market . Tech increase means any advancement that increases real output , such as a better way to farm or a way to make better houses . Decrease in market inefficiency are things such as removing minimum wages , tariffs , etc . Note , these things may lead to a worse economy in one country , but the global economy as a whole will constantly grow . People saying bullshit about capitalism and unsustainable growth are completely misinterpreting Marx . If you 're referring to an individual country level , then growth occurs due to the things mentioned above , but also at the expense of other countries . This much is self explanatory . The reason the economy shrinking is bad is because technology is always increasing such that real output of the entire global system is always increasing . If one country is sitting there and staying flat or shrinking , that means it is losing relative economic strength compared to other countries . This tends to have a compounding effect as the country is forced to do things that cause the economy to become even weaker . An example is minimum wage . If the US was n't hemorrhaging high skilled labor ( such as
I like to think of it as the surface of an inflating balloon ( the analogy fails when speaking of the actual shape of the universe ) . Draw a few points on the balloon and watch them spread apart as they inflate . If reality is the skin of the balloon , it 's not growing into something as much as the properties of that surfacs are changing . Nothing is coming into existence as it " changes " ( ~~2nd law of thermodynamics~~ ) all the material and everything of relevance was already there to be begin with . Edit : I should have said 1st law of thermodynamics .
Hi welcome to the health care magic You are having rash and flu symptoms in past Rashes are present whole over body.. Hence these seems to be viral infection induced rashes... If you post photo then better comment can be given For rashes you can prescribed antihistaminic drug like levocetrizine.. Topical calamine lotion is also beneficial Your CBC report should be done Take care Consult dermatologist for examination of rashes (along with CBC report)
The club is a crime organization that can be violent they have been known to visit bars and threaten bar / club owners to let them sell drugs in the bar / club but most of the violence they commit is against other criminals . While they are drug dealers they also raise awarness to charites to probably win over the population of where ever their club is located atleast that what happens in my city
Basically , money laundering uses a business ( or a similar method ) to hide where the money came from . Say you rob a bank and get $ 100,000 . If you go and deposit that $ 100,000 in cash at another bank , you 're going to raise some eyebrows . Even if you deposit it $ 2,000 at a time each week for a year , you still might draw some unwanted attention . If you have access to a small business and they can take that money and pretend it was a good sales month , nobody 's really gon na notice . They can then give you ' paychecks ' that look a lot more legitimate when deposited than a duffel bag full of cash .
Were women * required * to retire earlier , or is the norm just that they choose to ? It they were required to , this is discriminatory . If they choose to , then the persons gender and sex is completely irrelevant , and statistics are just representative of when each gender typically opts to retire . But you said up until recently - if this standard has recently changed , then everything above is irrelevant .
Interest rates do generally affect house prices but other factors do too, especially the unemployment rate. However, everything else being equal, when interest rates drop, it makes the borrowing of money cheaper so tends to stimulate the economy and the housing market, increasing the demand for houses and generally causes house prices to increase (especially if the supply of new housing doesn't increase with the demand). When interest rates go up the opposite happens. Usually interest rates go down in order to stimulate a slowing economy and interest rates go up to slow down an overheated economy. Regarding your situation you are able to get a 30 year fixed rate at today’s interest rates (in Australia the longest fixed rate you can get is for 10 years and the rate is usually 1 or 2 percent higher than the standard variable rate. Most people here go for the variable rate or a fixed rate of between 1 to 3 years). This means that even if rates do go up in the future you won't be paying a higher rate, which is a positive for you. You are buying the house to live in so as long as you can keep making the repayments you should not be too worried if the price of the house drops sometime in the future, because if your house has dropped and you want to sell to buy another house to live in, then that house would have also dropped relative to yours (give or
So, the term "ready market" simply means that a market exists in which there are legitimate buy/sell offers, meaning there are investors willing to own or trade in the security. A "spot market" means that the security/commodity is being delivered immediately, rather at some predetermined date in the future (hence the term "futures market"). So if you buy oil on the spot market, you'd better be prepared to take immediate delivery, where as when you buy a futures contract, the transaction doesn't happen until some later date. The advantage for futures contract sellers is the ability to lock in the price of what they're selling as a hedge against the possibility of a price drop between now and when they can/will deliver the commodity. In other words, a farmer can pre-sell his grain at a set price for some future delivery date so he can know what he's going to get regardless of the price of grain at the time he delivers it. The downside to the farmer is that if grain prices rise higher than what he sold them for as futures contracts then he loses that additional money. That's the advantage to the buyer, who expects the price to rise so he can resell what he bought from the farmer at a profit. When you trade on margin, you're basically borrowing the money to make a trade, whether you're trading long (buying) or short (selling) on a security. It isn't uncommon for traders to pledge securities they already
This is more psychology than biology . A lot of it corresponds to what we saw when we were very , very young . It normally relates to seeing something frighten our mother . If she is frightened by a spider , we ' learn , ' in a way , that spiders are frightening . They pose a threat to our mother , so they pose a threat to us . It 's also distressing for a young child to see their mother frightened or in distress , so it can create that association .
Plugs come in various shapes depending on where you are in the world . Three prong plugs are always designed so they can not be inserted incorrectly ( i.e. they do not have 3 - fold rotational symmetry ) . This is to ensure the earth pin ( the big one ) is not inserted into either of the live sockets , and to ensure the device is always properly earthed . The reason the earth pin is normally longer than the other pins is to ensure that the device is always earthed even when plugging or unplugging the device . When plugging in the device , the earth pin will be the first to touch the contacts , so when current does flow the device is already earthed . And when the device is being unplugged , the earth pin is the last to separate from the contacts , so the current has been disconnected before the device is removed from the earth .
Your brain is hard - wired to go where you look , or perform an action where you 're looking . It 's the same reason coaches tell you never to take your eye off the ball . It 's also why it 's such a pain in the ass to learn to touch type ... you are n't looking at your hands ( or are n't supposed to be ) . Same principle applies on a motorcycle . If you focus on a guardrail in a curve , you 're gon na drive into the guardrail . If you look * through * the curve towards the apex , you 'll drive out of it in a nice , smooth arc .
[ This article ] ( URL_0 ) discusses some of the new training that they are doing . > Some of the tests for pot and booze impairment are similar . A Romberg test - maintaining balance with eyes closed - is used to gauge the loss of motor coordination . A suspect also is asked to estimate 30 seconds in his or her head , to gauge the internal clock . Failure of this test can be an indicator of stimulant or depressant use . > Other tests zero in on pot use exclusively . A pot smoker may have a reddish cast to the whites of the eyes , and pupils may be dilated .
So I think most of this has to do with aerodynamics . The front of the car is designed to " slice " through the air instead of pushing it . The back is * usually * an after thought aerodynamically . Now consider hatchbacks , like my Crosstrek ( Subaru ) . It has a rear windshield wiper like most hatchbacks . Why ? When driving , the air passing over the car ends up getting sucked into the back window and panels . This is because the shape of the car forms more of a vacuum there . You can notice this effect easily during a light rain . You may not need to turn on your windshield wipers but you soon notice your rear view window misted over . You can see this in tractor trailers as well . The top part of their " cab " is a lot dirtier than the bottom ( although " clean me " is usually written in the middle or bottom cause that 's easiest to reach :P ) .
The choroid coat of the eye in humans is full of blood vessels , which when a camera catches it , causes red eye in photos . Animals have a tapetum , which reflects the light from the back of the eye back to the front of the eye giving them better eyesight at night , and also giving them green eyes in photos . The reason that the tapetum has priority is because it is layered on top of the choroid , so the light is reflected back before the red choroid coat has a chance to see the light . In albino cats ( or albino animals I 'm assuming ) they sometimes lack proper pigmentation , and their eyes will still show red in photos despite their use of the tapetum .
Any pathogen ( whether viral , bacterial , protozoan , prion , or whatever ) in your meal is going to be something that 's already perfectly adapted to living in human beings . This is n't really the case with , say , fish . That 's the main problem . Your risk is n't terribly high , but somewhat higher than it would be eating something else .
A " second " is not actually time . A second is a second . A second passes , but time itself is not constrained by the tyranny of what a second is , the same as the concept of length itself is not constrained by meters or feet . Each moment is the now . You can not subdivide the now , the now could be conceived of as the absolute smallest increment of time , kin to electrons or quarks ( assuming , of course , nothing lies beneath * those * ) . A second could be expressed as a near - infinite string of nows , if you would like , which the universe processes at its own speed . The mistake you are making is assuming that your processing speed is the same as the universe 's , assuming it processes time the way your brain does , lingering on moments as they exist . It does not . The universe processes time , we perceive ( some of ) the results .
Okay , short answer is : Doctrine . There is a continuum for religious doctrine that runs roughly from Arminian to Reformed . This has to do with how they believe we react to God . Armenians believe we continually choose to go to heaven or hell , and can decide to be with God or to stray at any point . Reformed Calvianism is the other extreme , that God chose whom he will send to heaven and hell , and only died for certain people for his own reasons . There is an acronym for this called TULIP that details this doctrine Methodists are closer to arminian Presbyterians are closer to Reformed / Calvanism . They believe in infant baptism , ( because God picked you anyway ) Baptists are horrified by this because you did n't make the choice to turn from your sins and follow God via faith in his plan for salvation . Baptists are very broad doctrinally and are governed by the southern baptist convention , believing in baptism as a demonstration of salvation . They are relatively centrally located on the aforementioned continuum . evangelism is their focus , and they concentrate on spreading the gospel ( the good news that Jesus died for your sins so you can go to heaven . Lutheran is in line with the reactionary teachings of Martin Luther . All of these denominations believe you go to heaven by faith , not by what you do (
The Freedom of Religion clause says this : > Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof Simplified : > Congress wo n't make any laws that establish a state religion or stop anyone from practicing their own religions . Having a chaplain in Congress does not establish a state religion , nor does it prevent people from worshiping however they wish .
Here you have told about symptoms like back pain and shock like pain or sensatiin in inner hip as well the back of the foot. This kind of pain is usually related to back pain(spinal issue related with disc and nerve) only and rarely it may also be related to vitamin B deficiency along with less water intake.I suggest to visit a orthopedic and get your self examine properly, if needed go for x ray and then do take blood report to know about vitamin B level in body. As per the report and evaluation doctor will suggest for the precautionary treatment with medication. I suggest also visit a physio for postural correction, advice on back and leg strengthening and stretching exercises. And also do follow it.You can also use a hot bag at your back for some relief in pain.As per your symptoms what you have given nothing looks major so I have given you simple guideline and I am sure you will feel better once you start taking steps on it. Take care.
I loved holding them in my hand when I was young because they tickled . Now I ca n't stand the thought of that feeling . I hate those things , especially the gigantic ones that fly ( B-52s ) . Kicked one and tried crushing it with a slipper once . Damn thing bench pressed my slipper off its body and scurried away .
Trying to put the " five " into the ELI5 ... I think I have to broaden the question into one about non - disc computer memory in general , since no five - year - old would care about stuff like DRAM versus Flash . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 . Think of a system of flowing water in pipes . The direction of water in these pipes can be changed by little valves which you can switch by blasting them with water from * other * pipes . That 's sort of what an electrical circuit is like . 2 . Now , for electronic memory , think of many tiny cups -- like thimbles -- that are mounted on pivots and springs . On their own , they spring upright , but you can push them over from the side . Depending on which paths the water takes through the pipes , you can can : * Pour water into the little cup from above * Use a short strong jet of water to knock the cup over and dump out its contents * Find out whether the cup is already full by knocking it over , seeing what comes out , and refilling it if necessary . 3 . Got the picture of that one cup ? OK , that 's a " bit " of data being stored . Now
Not a full lawyer , so do n't hold me 100 % to this . First , I advise be polite . It 's not a rule , but being hostile will almost never end well and being polite often speeds things up . The vast vast majority of cops are not like the few you hear of on r / politics breaking the rules , they are doing their job and respecting that helps move things along ( and frankly they are often less inclined to search a cooperating person ) . Anything in plain view , a cop may look at . Anyplace you have a " reasonable expectation of privacy " meaning your home with the blinds closed , a fully zipped backpack , a purse etc can be searched only with your consent or with probable cause . If you consent they may act on anything they find . Others can not give consent on your behalf , so for example you could not let cops in to your roommate 's bedroom or car . If a cop claims probable cause , ask what the probable cause is , it may come up as a defense if it is a shaky reasoning . Refusing to cooperate is not probable cause , but sniffing dogs indicating your bag ( for example ) is considered probable cause . If a cop says they have a warrant , ask to see the warrant and what it covers . A
URL_0 Apparently , auctioneers get a cut of the final sale price , so : * Talking faster = sell faster = get through more items in a limited time = make more money * It creates a sense of excitement , like you need to bid RIGHT NOW or you 're gon na LOSE YOUR CHANCE , which gets more people to bid , and they bid higher . What they 're actually saying varies , but it includes : * Describing the item * Suggesting specific bids / letting people know what the next bid increment would be * Making jokes , banter , etc . to keep the audience entertained * Encouraging people to bid higher * Manipulating bidders who keep out - bidding each other to go as high as they can
Well , Twitter is a website where people can post what they 're thinking , so long as it 's short . They can also post to it from their phones very easily , so it has become pretty common to post about what is happening around the person who is posting . Sometimes people on Twitter see what 's going to be in the news before the news people can get there , or sometimes they just say something really funny ! It can be pretty interesting to read .
[ * First * ] ( URL_6 ) comes from Old English * fyrst * meaning , " primary or foremost or original . " Old English also had [ * forma * ] ( URL_0 ) , meaning " first . " The * -th * ending , by the way , is also something that we get from Old English , though it used to be [ * -þa * ] ( URL_1 ) ( þ is an old letter that makes a th sound ) . However , [ * second * ] ( URL_5 ) came into English via Old French which in turn got it from Latin * secundus * , meaning " following or next " ( it 's related to * sequel , * among other things ) . This pushed out the Old English form [ * ōþer * ] ( URL_4 ) ( though it stayed around as the word * other * ) . [ * Third * ] ( URL_7 ) comes from Old English * þridda * , which simply meant " third . " It 's close - ish to how other ordinals were formed , but why it ends in * -dda * instead of * -þa * I 'm not sure . Maybe something to do with Old English * þrī * ( " three " ) starting with þ as well ? Or maybe the long vowel ? Or something else ? [ *
Axioms are used in formal logical reasoning like math . Logical reasoning can not create new facts but can combine facts into new ones . Axioms are the facts we take for granted and does not have to be proven . It is similar to a definition . So the axiom of choice is that you can make a selection from the values in a set . This may seam trivial but there is no way to prove that it is possible . And if you think of how many times a mathematical proof have you pick any number from a list it is obvious that it is a very important axiom .
There are several different ways the ISS gets oxygen ! As you may know , water is made up of the elements Hydrogen and Oxygen . Those elements come packaged together in little bundles called " molecules . " The ISS has a machine that can separate those little bundles into the two different elements . This lets them pull out the useful oxygen so that they can keep breathing ! The machine that does this on the ISS is called the [ Elektron ] ( URL_0 ) , and uses a cool process called [ electrolysis ] ( URL_2 ) . There 's another machine that is sometimes used on the ISS . This one is called the [ Vika ] ( URL_1 ) , although it 's sometimes called the " candle . " The Vika works by burning a special kind of salt . This salt is called " [ lithium perchlorate ] ( URL_4 ) . " When the salt is burned , it produces mostly oxygen , and one liter of the salt can give one person oxygen for an entire day ! This device is riskier than the Elektron , but it 's been made much more safe in recent years . Of course , sometimes the machines like Vika and Elektron need repairs and do n't work properly , so big oxygen canisters are sent up to the station . This is n't ideal , of course , but sometimes it has to
In a formal argument you present assumptions , then you show how starting from those assumptions you get to a conclusion . An argument is valid if you can get to the conclusion starting from the assumptions . An argument is sound if it is valid * and * the assumptions are correct . [ This ] ( URL_0 ) page presents the following example of an argument that is valid but not sound : > All toasters are items made of gold . > All items made of gold are time - travel devices . > Therefore , all toasters are time - travel devices . The assumptions are the first two lines , which lead to the conclusion on the third line . * If * the assumptions are true then the conclusion is true . Toasters are n't all made of gold and golden items are not time - travel devices , though , so while this argument is valid it is not sound .
Eggs are a very efficient binder : they mix readily while raw , and harden when cooked , holding together the whole . The whites , when beaten , hold bubbles , which expand when heated , providing leavening to make things fluffy . Not a chemist , but that 's a start . Edit : Fun fact for fingerpainting five - year - olds : many [ famous paintings ] ( URL_0 ) are simply pigment mixed with raw egg or egg - yok .
I do n't know the whole story but I know a few parts I am sure others can expand upon . One Gawker journalist , Adrian Chen , hates reddit , like really really hates us . He has made it his mission to take us down , I believe he was the one who tried to make reddit out to be filled with pedophiles by the /r / jailbait fiasco . He and Gawker as a whole does n't respect privacy , something the people of this site love . They frequently post personal details of users they do n't like , violentacrez is one example and try to publicly shame them .
The land that we call China is actually very broad and diverse linguistically . Think of it like India : you ca n't say that someone speaks " Indian . " You 'd have to say that they speak Hindi , Telugu , Punjabi , Gujurati , etc . , but to say that they speak Indian would be incorrect . The term " Chinese " as a demonym is as broad as " Native American " or even " European . " Within the category of " Chinese languages , " there are multiple related sub - languages with regional variations and dialects , only some of which are mutually intelligible .
Europe can be defined in various innacurate ways . The European Union does n't cover it ( it leaves out such countries as Norway ) . The political geography ca n't really define it because Russia is only a part of it . The Eurasian plate is the plate the mainland is on , which is the same one as much of Asia . We do n't define continents directly with plates though - we made countries first and then we discovered plate tectonics about 60 years ago , and it just so happened that many continents had their own plates ( eg . much of Africa ) . Probably the best definition is from Spain to Russia , up to the Ural mountains . It 's not really racism , more simple politics . It does n't make any sense to associate directly with asia because it 's so far away .
Because there is not one . Every person has different conditions , disorders , allergies , intolerance , activities that all lead to different nutritional needs . A top level athlete that is in training may need massive amounts of protein and a calorie intake up to nearly 4000 Calories a day . Someone with iron deficiency may need to eat a lot of red meat . Someone with celiac disease will need to avoid gluten . And there are thousands of other variables .
Imagine you drop a plate to the floor and it break in so many parts . It is almost impossible to predict how all the parts will spread out on the floor or how will they break before they do so . The weather is similar to the parts of plates on the floor , although we know how it works , there are so many variables and possibilities that it becomes hard to predict . Even if there are some patterns , and we have very good computers calculating it , we ca n't have much certain for predictions for more than a week , or month .
Despite what you may think ( and apparently what others are telling you ) , terrorism is not an arbitrary label that only gets attached to Muslim killers . Terrorism has a definition and while there are as [ many definitions of terrorism ] ( URL_0 ) as there are organizations that deal with it , these definitions share a number of similar attributes , such as the following : 1 ) * * Political or Ideological Motivations :* * The perpetrators committed the attack because they want to force political , social , or ideological changes in a society or its leadership . This is the most important attribute for defining terrorism and distinguishes it from other acts ( e.g. mass murder ) . In case of the difference between the Boston bombings and the Wisconsin shootings , the motivations of the perpetrators is greatly important . The shooting in Wisconsin was not seeking to force change in society and was just cold - blooded mass - murder . 2 ) * * Use of Violence :* * The perpetrators use violence to achieve their goals , which are the political , social or ideological changes stated above . Some people or organizations will also include the threat of violence as terrorism . For example , if an environmental extremist bombs a research facility at night when no one is inside , it may still be considered terrorism because it is sending a threat . This is tied directly
Squinting puts pressure on the eyeball . This alters its shape , possibly partially correcting for the astigmatism or short - sightedness that your glasses corrects . It also reduces the effective size of the pupil , acting somewhat like a pinhole camera , improving the image produced on the back of your eye , regardless of focusing problems . Interestingly , as someone with acceptable vision , squinting causes everything to go out of focus , instantly and completely blurring my vision .
Depends on where you live and what you 're trying to do . Many places have mechanisms in place where if you reach a signature threshhold then it will start a political process like being put on a ballet . getting a large number of signatures is a good way to get a politician to champion your cause since they 'll see it as a way to get more voters or strengthen the ones that have , plus being responsive to your constituents always plays well . and then there 's internet petitions , which mean little to nothing and can be safely ignored .
A file server is a computer that is used for serving files . Specifically it is a computer that allows you to upload and download files from it . Since this definition covers a whole bunch of different types of servers it is usually meant to only refer to servers which use protocols like NFS or SMB rather than systems like web servers even though those also are used to server files . FTP servers may also be called file servers and a wide variety of different technologies are being called file servers if they are used in a certain way . Basically when you have your windows computer and decided to share a directory with other on your network it becomes a file server . Other may access files on your computers hard drive like they would their own via a file share . A computer may get dedicated to storing files that others access via shares and thus be a file server . It may just be a regular windows computer running windows 7 or 10 but if you run an operating system like Windows Server you can give it the file server role to do that job . Windows uses the SMB protocol to share files . Under Linux system the NFS protocol has a similar role although Linux can also use older version of the SMB protocol with SAMBA . If a computer gets dedicated to do nothing but serving files it may be called a
SAS and SATA are just two interfaces ( ways to connect hard drives . ) They come in several sizes ( also 1.8 " ) because some devices are only large enough for smaller sizes , while larger sizes offer more performance and capacity . 2.5 " is the size that fits most laptops , while 3.5 " is typical for desktops . The cache is used to quickly retrieve often - used data . This data is stored in RAM , which is much faster to access than the actual platters of the hard drive . A hybrid hard drive is a device combining a SSD ( a much faster and non - mechanical , but more expensive per MB successor to the hard drive ) and a traditional hard drive .
If you 're discussing issues like Bernie Sander 's proposals , the answer is : it 's hard to know . His vagueness about policy details does n't only stop at the difficult question of " who is going to pay for all this ? " but also extends to questions like " How much federal oversight will universities have to accept to be eligible ? " The basic policy question is : do you want free tuition as a giveaway to the best and brightest ( broadly speaking , people currently attending college ) , or is the goal to get people who currently * are n't * attending college to attend ? If the former , it 's probably good for universities , with serious risks . If the latter , then it 's probably bad , because the limiting factor in American higher education right now is n't really funds , but poor pre - university education . Either way , free tuition creates a serious free - rider problem for the education system . Currently , while university students can be shockingly lazy and hedonistic , they at the very least have to face the fact that if they do n't learn anything and/or do n't make acceptable grades , they have wasted a huge amount of money for nothing . Free tuition lowers the cost of laziness , and unless everyone 's incentives are aligned so that * both * the university * and *
Most people on Earth speak [ Indo - European languages ] ( URL_0 ) , a family of languages that spans from India to Spain all descended from a single language that was probably spoken by people living in the vicinity of the Caucasus mountains thousands of years ago . Its major branches are the Indo - Iranian languages ( Hindi , Punjabi , Bengali , Farsi , Kurdish , etc . ) , the Romance languages ( Italian , French , Spanish , Portuguese , etc . ) , the Germanic languages ( German , Dutch , English , Swedish , Norwegian , etc . ) and the Balto - Slavic languages ( Russian , Polish , Czech , Lithuanian , Serbian , etc . ) . Minor branches include the Celtic languages ( Irish Gaelic , Scots , Welsh , etc . ) , Greek , Albanian , and Armenian . 12 out of the top 20 languages by native speakers are Indo - European , and words with Indo - European roots have found their way into non - Indo - European languages , particularly those languages which are geographically adjacent like Hungarian , Turkish , Arabic , Dravidian , etc .
A hacker does not try to log in millions of times rather they first hack in to the servers where the hashed passwords are stored . Then produce a million hashes until they have a match . A hash is a process that only works one way . For example maybe a code transforms the word " password " into " a5 - h9cv " or something . In the database the website store " a5 - h9cv " and do not know the password ( and there is no way to find the password from this hash ) . But if you hash every possible password and see what comes out you will see that " password " becomes " a5 - h9cv " . Most websites nowadays use something called hash and salt which is more secure were you have a salt ( some random string of characters ) that is big enough that it takes more time to perform a hash , it still takes less than a second to log in , but if your going to do a million hashes to break every password it would take forever .
There are so many programming languages for the same reason there are so many kinds of automobiles . Why does n't everyone in the world drive a simple sedan like a Honda Civic ? * Well what if you wanted to haul a sofa from point A to point B. You could tie it to the roof of your Honda Civic but that 's a lot of work and might not work out so well . So people made pickup trucks . * What if you had to drive across a lot of mud and sand to get to where you want to go . A sedan might get stuck or damaged . So people made Jeeps and Land Rovers . * What if you wanted to get from point A to point B as fast as possible and you knew the roads were very clean and well maintained . So people made sports cars . Why does almost every car maker in the world make a sedan if there already is a company that makes one . Because they are all a little different and they often compete with each other to get better and be more useful . Those are the same reasons there are so many programming languages and why no one programming language is " the " language to learn or the be all end all . They all do different things well . And for example C # and Java are based on similar concepts
Keep in mind that many checks are being cashed via scanner or photo. These can be home based, business based or ATM based systems. The key requirement is that the software has to be able to distinguish the "written" parts from the background parts. If the image doesn't have enough contrast for the edge detection to work, the check can't be easily processed. In that case a human looks at the image and decodes the image and processes the transaction. The image is not in color. Many businesses scan the check and hand the original back to you after having the Point of Sale system process the image. Post 2001 the checks in the united states are no longer moved through the banking system, only their images. With the roll out of these image based systems, in the future almost no physical checks will be seen by banks. Therefore the actual ink color is not important, only the result.
From my first year uni astrophysics notes : > The eye perceives logarithmically , so each magnitude class is a factor ( c ) fainter or brighter . A change in 5 classes is 100 times brighter / fainter , so c=2.512 So you do n't have it backwards . As for why , being a physics student rather than a biology student I ca n't give a biological reason . But on a physical level it 's because , being the flawed humans we are , while we find it easy to perceive small differences at low levels ( for example , the difference between 1 joule and 2 joules ) there 's no way that we would perceive that same difference at high levels ( such as the difference between 1000 joules and 1001 joules ) . As a result , the difference between levels of intensity we perceive increases as the intensity itself increases . That is one definition of a logarithmic scale .
If anyone could answer this question accurately and precisely , they 'd be the most famous doctor of all time ! In the less precise sense , its because we are all slightly different . Exact chemical make ups , and dna makeups are never the same . They vary on so many little factors . Thus someone might have the wrong gut flora , and a medicine makes them violently ill that worked on every other person it was tested on . Someone might have the wrong blood make up , and that simply shot gives them hives . But a specific answer to each ... just not possible to determine .
I learned in my Genetics lecture that handedness comes from more than one allele , and that it 's * basically * recessive in its nature , so ... Similar to red - headedness or albino people , it 's not as easy as your 3:1 or 9:3:3:1 splits , but still yields something like 11 % in the whole world .
Hi,Thanks for writing in.Apprehension about the normal size of penis is a major concern for men. At 18 years age, you are too young to judge the size of your penis. It is made up of muscles and the growth at puberty and adolescent is under the influence of testosterone. A research study was done in healthy Indian males on penis size during flaccid and erect and the width of the penis. Mean flaccid length was found to be 8.21 cm, mean stretched length 10.88 cm and circumference 9.14 cm. Mean erected length was found to be 13.01 cm and erected circumference was 11.46 cm. If your penis measurements are at least as mentioned above then there is no need to worry.Semen flowing with urine is a misconception in most men at your age. If you feel it is present then it needs to be evaluated after clinical examination with the urologist. Any urine infection must also be ruled out.
Your nervous system normally tries to keep a balance between being too revved - up and being too relaxed . There are different systems with different chemicals ( hormones , neurotransmitters etc ) in your body that accomplish these goals . When you need to run away from a dangerous situation , you activate your Sympathetic System , also known as " fight or flight " . When you want to relax in a hammock and take a nap in the sun , you activate your Parasympathetic System , also known as " rest and digest " . Getting an erection depends on the chemicals of the Parasympathetic , not the Sympathetic System . You do n't need a boner to run away from a lion , no matter how hilarious it might sound . However , if you 're in " rest and digest " mode ( like when you 're sleeping ) , you have a predominance of Parasympathetic hormones and neurotransmitters , and therefore you 're pretty likely to get an erection .
A lot of scientifically - minded folks back then expected that research would prove psychic powers . In the late 19th and early 20th century , parapsychology attempted to devise tests that would measure ESP and other abilities . There was also serious research into hauntings , near - death experiences , and out - of - body experiences , and many people believed that these would prove the existence of a soul , or immaterial spiritual component of the human mind . Today we 're pretty darn sure that the mind is the activity of the brain , and that various weird experiences are a product of weird biological or chemical things happening to the brain — not ghosts , souls , or psychic powers . But part of the reason for this is that parapsychology research was actually * tried , * and it did n't yield any repeatable results . In order to know that today , it had to actually be tried ! Not only did people not know a lot about the biology of the brain back then , but they also did n't know much about what actually makes up intelligence . The Golden Age ( ' 30s-'50s ) was before the advent of artificial intelligence research , and * long * before cognitive science . So mentalism ( in the sense of " believing that minds are magic soul - things , not just biological computers " ) could still be taken seriously
[ Here 's a primer . ] ( URL_0 ) What it basically boils down to is that it was a font that was designed to get kids interested in computers , then after it 's invention people used it on pretty much every document in existence until most people got burned out on it . Also , since the font is quirky enough to stick out , people will remember it easier as an example of what does n't fit in . The opposite example is that people rarely remember what Garamond looks like because it is much more traditional looking so hardly anyone ever complains about that one .
People need a word for non - trans so that they can talk about how society / culture / law affects different groups etc . In addition there is a requirement to not declare groups of people as weird , so words like " normal " or " regular " are out because of the implication . The term " cis " is the opposite of " trans " ( I think in latin ) so it was chosen .
1 . Because they wanted to honor the people who financed the voyage , so New York ( Duke of York -- lots of cities are named after aristocratic titles , which generally includes a place name , i.e. Duke of Cornwall , or Lord of Hampton , or something ) , Georgia ( King George ) , Pennsylvania ( William Penn ) . 2 . Also , they wanted to honor the places where they came from . 3 . It 's hard to come up with a name that does not sound silly . 4 . Sometimes , why they named it I ca n't say . Maybe they just liked it better that way .
I work in retail at a union store . I started watching the documentary * WalMart : The High Cost of Low Prices * , but around the time they talked about unionizing WalMart , I had to turn it off . I could n't take it seriously anymore . I 'd say the majority of the complaints workers had about working at Walmart are things that I 've dealth with on a fairly regular basis . They expected that , if they unionized , UFCW would come and solve all their problems . While UFCW does some good things , there are some areas where , in my experience , they 're completely and utterly useless . But here 's what I 've seen , anyway : * Wages : Union stores seem to have a slightly better wage structure than WalMart . We start out slightly above minimum wage , but after union dues your take home is actually less than that of a minimum wage worker . The one guy in the documentary said it took him 2 years to get a $ 1 / hr raise , whereas in my union it only takes a year . As a side note , I have 2 friends who used to work overnights at WalMart , whose starting wages were more than I 'm making now after 3 years . * Working off the clock : There seemed to be two sides to this one . One was
There are two things you need to keep in mind when you look at Inflation as an entity. Inflation is necessary to keep in check the value of goods. As per Moore's Law for example, a mobile phone that you buy for £100 today will be available for £50 in two years. With increased purchasing power, one needs to maintain balance between the purchasing power and its value. If you think about the 'loss' at a rate of 2% you would have £96.04 (in terms of today's value) in two years. But if you looked at the same cell phone as leverage for your business where it allowed you to do work and earn £1000 in two years - the investment would clearly offset the cost of inflation. Inflation is incentive for people to spend their money. If you for example spent all of your £100 today, it is £100 income for someone else. He has further incentive to spend it creating a chain of transactions. In theory while this is a true mathematical loss, the increasing purchasing power helps you leverage your financial asset to get a return on your investment.
An easy way to think of them is simply groupings of numbers ( or any objects ) that make sense as a whole group . For a vector example , think about a position in 3d space . you have a position in the x direction , same with the y and z directions . If you were to represent these positions as a whole you would have to group these together into one entity . Hence a " position " vector would look like this [ x , y , z ] . An array is very similar to a vector ( to the point where sometimes they are the same thing ) , but usually we use them to group very similar numbers / objects together as a sequence of objects / numbers one after another . for example we can have whole numbers between one through ten [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ] A matrix is simply a multidimensional array or vector . if you look at the examples i gave above as if they were a table you can see they are one dimension , 1 row and many columns ( although they can also be 1 column and many rows ) . A matrix has multiple rows and multiple columns . e.g [ [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 ,
( * sighs * This is going too be an argument ... ) This comes down to understanding the bare basics of natural selection : Firstly , The concept that humans are blank slates is a concept in psychology that serves as a proponent into understanding behavior , mainly deviant behavior such as those found in sadist and psychopaths . This concept was brought into question on how deviance arises , whether one 's " evil " is inheritance or is their behavior molded by their care givers and/or environment . The latter is the " blank slate " idea you mentioned . The problems with this blank slate is the question asked by OP , why do dogs have instincts and humans do n't , and to answer that question , NO ! HUMANS HAVE INSTINCTS ! Humans are born with the instinct to cry , to feed , to avoid pain , to recognizing other humans . These are instincts . As most humans mature , they 're educated by systems and life expediences , so in some aspects , humans begin to train themselves to resist their instincts . An example of this a solider not moving when he is ordered to stand still . Now not to shit on OP 's heart , but are you implying that at the age of three you had to be trained how to smell ? I think the point OP is getting at is why do dogs retain so
There was a moral panic in the US after WWII , part of the larger Red Scare , where comics were accused of brainwashing kids into becoming antisocial criminals ( c.f . * Seduction of the Innocent * ) . After that the old way of doing cartoons , with jokes that both adults and children could get , was erased . Thereafter , cartoons were aimed at children only ( with exceptions like Ralph Bakshi ) and dropped in quality creating the impression in American culture that they were just for kids .
Depends on the substance . Opioids essentially put you to sleep and turn off the part of the brain that controls breathing . Stimulants such as cocaine or meth can cause your heart to beat so fast it throws itself out of whack ( arrhythmia ) . Or your blood pressure could raise to high enough levels you injure your organs . Overdosage of blood pressure meds can drop your pressure to levels so low your organs are n’t getting enough blood to work . Meds you take for irregular heartbeat will cause other irregularities and your heart wo n’t be able to pump properly . Blood thinners will make your blood too thin and you can bleed out either from cuts or small holes in your vessels . Overdose on chemotherapy ? That ’s a slow death where your body stops producing blood cells . Tylenol ? Liver failure due to your body trying to break it down and making a poisonous byproduct . Slow , painful , and overall not recommended . Aspirin , ibuprofen , etc ? Large doses will cause the balance of substances in your blood to get out of whack . pH , specifically . Possible kidney failure . There are many , many more physiologic mechanisms and drug dosing is a balance between the effect we want and minimizing effects we do n’t want . Some of these effects can be due to ingesting a lot all at once , while others can
I feel like this is gon na get deleted right away because it does n't seem like an eli5 question , but lemme answer it anyway because it raises an interesting point . Yes , there is something wrong with it . Because children ca n't fully comprehend struggles . Young humans are sponges , they pick up on everything . So if you bring up bills and work and other artificial issues , it could mess them up . It would n't mess them up if they were natural problems like hunger and death , but they are n't . It 's a huge psychological problem among humans that we 've created a world we ca n't tolerate . And that 's for adults , an under developed child brain ca n't begin to understand these things , but it will try and fail in the process . Plus it 's just a dick move to ruin a childhood . You only get one and it 's not like life itself wo n't teach them anything you could tell them .
There are two main reasons : 1 . Your sense of taste is based on chemical reactions . Generally speaking , these happen more quickly and readily at warmer temperatures . Cold food simply does not taste as strongly as warm food , and the balance of flavors will be different . 2 . Texture . Things like cheese harden at low temperatures , resulting in a different mouthfeel .
Definitely . I sometimes have lucid dreams , and they can be very lucid . In one dream I was so lucid that I said to someone in the dream , " This is a dream , and I 'm upstairs in bed right now , dreaming this , " and I pointed to were my bedroom actually is in the house . I was virtually completely conscious ( pun intended ) . I 've learned that I can remain in a lucid dream as long as I like , but only if I do n't deliberately try to alter the dream . I just go along with it as though I were n't lucid , and watch what happens , almost as though it were a movie . They 're usually very satisfying dreams .
Religious beliefs do not automatically trump laws . You need to show that your * sincere * religious beliefs are more important than the state 's interest in enforcing the law . Since you just made up the religion on your own & nobody else believes it , any judge faced with this would laugh in your face and call you out as full of shit .
Contrary to popular belief , people without insurance do n't die in front of hospitals . If your life is in immediate danger , they are obligated to save you , regardless of whether you can afford it . However , then the patient typically gets a bill for it . If they do n't pay it , it does bad things to their credit , the hospital writes it off as a loss , and usually passes the cost on to other patients . Hence why you always have people complaining about how they pay $ 15 for an aspirin .
Despite what many say , committing to regular exercise ( and diet ) is a very ( very ! ) difficult thing to do , especially for " normal " people who live in real life , with work , families and problems . First , it requires time . Even if you will work out 30 mins a day , it can add up to much more than that with time to drive to gym , change , shower , this and that . Second , it takes a lot of energy , if you really do a serious work out . Especially if you lift , a 45 min at the gym will tire the heck out of you . After a serious session , you will be hungry like hell , have hard time doing many other things you need to do ( like paying the bills , or helping the kid with homework ) , and you will just want to eat and sleep . If you exercise at night , waking up at 6:00 AM will become very hard . Third , your life will constantly throw obstacles at you . Your kid will get sick , work will get busy , SO will get pissed , you will get the flu , car will break down , etc . There will always be very good reasons to skip the gym . Finally , it is easy to get motivated when you are rested ,
Firstly , there are just a greater variety of diseases in the tropics because of the increased biodiversity . There are more nasty diseases and more harmless diseases . Secondly , population density is greater in the tropics , which allows for dangerous diseases to spread before killing their host . If some highly deadly disease appeared in a sparsely populated area , very few people would be infected and the disease will die with the victims . Thirdly , economic factors affect the country ’s ability to combat disease . Tropical areas tend to have less access to sanitation . Cholera is a terrible disease which is virtually extinct in the developed world thanks to proper sanitation .
During the settlement period, the buyer transfers payment to the seller and the seller transfers ownership to the buyer. This is really a holdover from the days when so much of stock trading was done by individual human traders, and computers were still not a huge part of the operation. Back then, paper tickets for trades exchanged hands, and the time period was actually 5 days, so 3 days is an improvement. A settlement period was necessary for everyone to figure out their trades and do what was necessary to make the settlements happen, so it was not always a quick process, mainly because of smaller trading firms that didn't have technology to help them along. Nowadays, technology makes settlements easy, and they usually occur at the end of the trading day. The trading firms sum up their trades, figure out who they owe, and send lump sum settlements to the counterparties to their trades. If anything, the 3-day period may just be used now to let parties verify trades before settling. I hope this helps. Good luck!
There is a book entirely focused on this that I highly recommend . It 's called " 1491 : New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus " . I read it awhile ago , but one of the biggest takeaways for me was how many people there were before the population was decimated by disease brought by Europeans . We think of North America being very sparsely populated , but that 's because by the time most places were reached by settlers , the number of natives was a fraction of what it once was . One thing that was speculated was that the giant hordes of Buffalo out west existed because the population of hunters had been massively reduced in the preceding centuries .
Keep in mind that in order to fund your online casino account, you either had to provide credit/debit card info, or you had to give them your bank account number band routing number already. Now, assuming you've seen no fraudulent activity on your account(s) since then, and it was you who initiated the contact with them, what they're asking for is not totally unreasonable, nor is it all that unusual. MANY companies require you to provide account/routing info to do financial business with them, which doesn't automatically equate to nefarious purposes, so don't let yourself go down that rabbit hole unless there's some other serious red flag to the situation which you haven't shared with us. It is a bit odd they'd send you a check for a portion of the winnings, but maybe that's to demonstrate good faith on their part as to why they need you to provide them information to send the remainder of your winnings. That being said, the suggestion to open a bank account solely for purposes of receiving your winnings is a good one. I would go a step further and, once the transfer is made, go to the bank in person and withdraw it in cash. Then you can deposit it into your regular bank account without there being any possible connection between the two, just in case you decide to indulge your fears about this. Good luck!
There 's a difference between the * act * being illegal and the * recording * of the act being illegal . Take a look at [ this ] ( URL_0 ) table of state - by - state laws regarding zoophilia , the recording of zoophilic acts , and the sale and consumption of those recordings . Note how while most ( * edit :* but not all ) states ban zoophilia , relatively few ban the recording of zoophilia , and only the Virgin Islands bans the ownership of zoophilic pornography . In other words , it may be illegal to do it , but it 's not illegal to watch other people do it on the internet .
" Petrichor ( /ˈpɛtrɨkɔər/ ) is the scent of rain on dry earth , or the scent of dust after rain . The word is constructed from Greek , petros , meaning ‘ stone ’ + ichor , the fluid that flows in the veins of the gods in Greek mythology . It is defined as " the distinctive scent which accompanies the first rain after a long warm dry spell".[1 ] The term was coined in 1964 by two Australian researchers , Bear and Thomas , for an article in the journal Nature.[2][3 ] In the article , the authors describe how the smell derives from an oil exuded by certain plants during dry periods , whereupon it is absorbed by clay - based soils and rocks . During rain , the oil is released into the air along with another compound , geosmin , a metabolic by - product of certain Actinobacteria , which is emitted by wet soil , producing the distinctive scent ; ozone may also be present if there is lightning.[4 ] In a follow - up paper , Bear and Thomas ( 1965 ) showed that the oil retards seed germination and early plant growth.[5 ] This would indicate that the plants exude the oil in order to safeguard the seeds from germination under duress . " -Wikipedia , petrichor
Hello thanks for asking from HCM for your health related queriesI can understand your concern. The symptoms like exhausted feeling, poor concentration etc can occur due to persistent stress or mild depression. But some medical causes should be ruled out to make diagnosis of stress as cause of these symptoms. Low vitamin B12 levels, poor nutrition, iron deficiency anaemia, hypothyroidism, hyper cortisol levels etc are common medical causes that should be ruled out for these symptoms. Please consult a doctor for proper evaluation and investigations.Vitamin B12 supplements, Omega 3 Fatty Acids tabs help to reduce these symptoms and are very useful. If symptoms persist then visit a psychiatrist for treatment. Thanks, Hope this helps you. Take careDr. Seikhoo BishnoiPsychiatrist.
Tibet is now a Chinese colony . The Chinese have other colonies , namely in the west of China where the Uighur people live . Time from time , there are riots against the Chinese colonists . Inner Mongolia is yet another example of a country being swamped by the Chinese . The Han ( the Chinese ) have a massive population , whereas Tibet is a large country but it is not that densely populated . What has happened is that the Han Chinese have moved into Tibet and now they comprise the majority of people in Tibet . One sees this in Lhasa , the capital of Tibet . The Han also control all of the economic resources and are plundering Tibet for their own benefit . Tibetans are forced to learn Chinese and to forget their own language if they want to work with the Han . Now the Tibetan people are a minority in their own country . And the head of the Tibetan people , the Dalai Lama , lives in exile in India . He was driven out by the Chinese in 1959 .
It 's in response to 1 ) Elliot Rodger 's shooting spree , which he stated was motivated by his hatred of the women who did n't want to sleep with him ( URL_0 ) , and 2 ) the fact that many men , upon hearing stories about sexism , respond with " but not all men do X , " which derails conversations away from broader social issues . Grammatically it 's something like " # NotAllMen are rapists , but # YesAllWomen constantly face rape threats . "
Most colonies became privately funded . Thus , they staked out different portions of land to extract resources . Instead of all competing for the same resources in the same territory , they stayed away from each other . If you were from Virginia , you could n't just go to new york . It was like going to a different country , but you all had roots in England . Eventually , American colonists decided to band together and make more profit and have more power by overthrowing their funders and rulers in England . The revolutionary war happens . They realized that states working together would increase their collective power . This led to the formation of the first national government , the Articles of Confederation . Essentially , for a few years before the collapse prompted the drafting of the constitution , each state was sovereign and the national government had laws , but state law superseded them . Essentially , the central government was very weak , and in an unstable situation like the founding of America was , this did n't last for long . So once the constitution established a federal , democratic republic , the national government superseded state law . But the idea of states having a tier of government between cities and federal government seemed appealing . Thus , states became regions other countries know as provinces or territories . They have a regional government but submit to a higher federal
Stars are made from the collection of massive amounts of matter , and later stars will be formed from the remains of earlier stars which exploded in supernova . This means that newly born stars end up with clouds of heavier materials around them . Any slight angular momentum in the originally hugely dispersed cloud turns into angular momentum as it gets pulled in closer , just how an ice skater spins faster when pulling their arms and legs in . Objects which are not in a " pancake " orbit tend to be pulled into one by the gravitational interaction of the matter which is , over great periods of time .
They are conservative when it comes to trusting 1 ) government officials and 2 ) people 's morality . They have a conservative view of human nature . In turn , this means they distrust claims that changing things could make things better . They do n't trust people not to be corrupted by power , so they do not trust the government to spend their money more efficiently than they could do so themselves . Therefore they do n't approve of adding new functions to the government ; the more things you put in the hands of the government , the faster it corrupts and the more money it wastes . They do not trust people ( including themselves ) to make proper moral choices , so they prefer to make those moral choices a matter of law . Studies of morality have shown that conservatives place much more importance on respect for authority than liberals , so moral claims that contradict their preferred moral authority are rejected .
Often the main thing that keeps semi - autonomous regions from splitting off is a lack of advantages to doing so . You lose all of the resources of the home country in exchange for ... what ? If the home country is holding you back , it can be a good decision . If not , why punch yourself in the balls ?
The difference is not that big . For example , a Jetta TDI is around $ 2000 more than a similarly equipped gasoline powered model . Similarly equipped is the key . Diesel versions are often variations of the mid range model , not the base model . That $ 7000-$12000 price difference you are seeing over the base model includes a lot more extra options than just the diesel .
Evolution does n't ' know ' things . Whenever there 's something that gives a certain kind of organism an advantage in survival or in reproduction , you get more of that something in the next generation , because those are the genes that get passed on . If a disease that kills blonde people spreads through the population , we will evolve brown hair - not because we ' know ' that brown hair is needed , but because blonde people wo n't be having as many babies . Because it 's harder to reproduce when you 're dead .
Inflation is where the buying power of a currency decreases ( causing prices to rise ) - It 's considered normal because steady inflation is the sign of a growing economy caused by the ' wage / cost ' cycle . Employees want higher wages , which causes prices to go up which causes employees to want higher wages , so on and so forth . If inflation is happening too fast , the government can increase interest rates , this causes people to spend less ( because the cost of borrowing increases ) and encourages prices to fall ( or stop rising as fast ) in response . It 's a bit up in the air at the moment because the high level of unemployment is causing people to not spend as much , resulting in lower inflation and consequently very low interest rates to try and prop things up .
Basically the difference is intent and planning . * * 1st Degree Murder * * : Intentionally causing the death of another , with planning , also known as murder in cold blood . ( You lie in wait with a gun , for your intended victim . ) * * 2nd Degree Murder * * : Intentionally causing the death of another , but with no pre - planning . ( For example , stabbing someone in a knife fight . ) * * Voluntary Manslaughter * * : Intentionally causing the death of another , again with no pre - planning , but with unusual circumstances that alter your clear thinking . ( For example , discovering your SO in bed with another , then shooting one of them . ) * * Involuntary Manslaughter * * : Unintentionally causing the death of another , through negligence . ( For example , running a red light or drunk driving , which causes the death of another . ) Involuntary manslaughter can involve intention to commit a violent act ( such as punching someone ) , but no intention to kill , even if death results ( for example , punching someone which results in a brain hemorrhage and death ) .
That is n't owning a number . It is owning information that can be represented as a number . That number 's * only * conceivable purpose would be to encode that copyrighted information . The unlikelihood that number could be used for anything else is strong evidence that anyone using it is infringing . But , if you could demonstrate that you had another legitimate reason to use that number , that had nothing to do with the copyrighted information , you would not be in violation . The chances are so remote as to be inconceivable , but if it happened , and you could prove it , you would be in the clear .
They are antonyms . Subjective information that is - by definition - based on personal opinion and feelings . Objective information is information that is not based on personal feelings . 1 . Objective - the sky is blue 2 . Subjective - the sky is beautiful It is NOT about factuality or accuracy . Objective information can be wrong ... it 's just not wrong because of personal perspective or feeling .
The Ctrl + Alt + Del key combination is known as the [ Secure Attention Sequence ] ( URL_0 ) on Windows . This is not overridable by software outside the operating system . Pressing the SAS means you are guaranteed to get a response from the operating system , not from some other software . This is important because malicious software might try to emulate the login screen to capture login details and passwords . The SAS prevent this . When designing Windows NT 3.1 , the developers looked around to see what key combination was n't used in any shipping application , so it did n't cause compatibility problems . The only one they could think of was Ctrl + Alt + Del , because it was the reboot sequence on DOS - based PCs and therefore not used by applications . Twenty years later we still have the same sequence for pretty much the same reasons :)
It 's a combination of environmental factors ( the things around us , like improved nutrition and shelter ) and genetic factors , driven mostly by natural selection and genetic drift ( people with advantageous genes reproduce so those genes become more common ) . Over time , taller people had an advantage over shorter people , they had improved chances of surviving and reproducing and so over time , people on average became taller .
[ Here 's ] ( URL_0 ) an article written about four years ago on this subject , it 's worth reading but one quote I 'll give you from it is this : Valve co - founder Gabe Newell announced during a DICE keynote today that last weekend 's half - price sale of Left 4 Dead resulted in a 3000 % increase in sales of the game , posting overall sales ( in dollar amount ) that beat the title 's original launch performance .
Suppose that when you were born , instead of giving you a name that is the same as that of your uncle , or someone in the Bible , or someone famous , your parents just made your name a random string of a million letters like " Sfgwtreeerigaspgsgfhhqwpqwrqwegh ... " And suppose everybody in the world did that . Would you expect any two people in the world to have the same name ? The shape of your fingerprints is the result of many more than a million random chemical and physical reactions . Why would you expect any two to be exactly the same ?
Please tootle it . I 'm gon na leave that autocorrect mistake . Basically we know that certain isotopes , specifically carbon 14,have a specific time where half of it degrades . Organisms take in c14 from the atmosphere and stop when they die . By measuring how much isleft . , you can tell how old it is . Isotopes with longer halflives can be dated older .
First off, you should phone your broker and ask them just to be 100% certain. You will be exercised on the short option that was in the money. It is irrelevant that your portfolio does not contain AAPL stock. You will simply be charged the amount it costs to purchase the shares that you owe. I believe your broker would just take this money from your margin/cash account, they would not have let you put the position on if your account could not cover it. I can't see how you having a long dated 2017 call matters. You would still be long this call once assignment of the short call was settled.
Your question is really huge so I 'm just gon na kind of go off on a tangent and lecture for a few . If you want more specific answers , let me know . Your car has an engine . The engine drives the transmission , which converts the limited speed range of the engine to a range more suitable for driving . If you 've ever ridden a bike with gears , you know how that works -- you're the engine , the bike is the transmission , and now you know why you need one , you ca n't go up a hill in tenth gear , nor go very fast in first . The transmission drives the differential , you need that because as you go around a turn , your outside wheel traces a circle larger than the inside , and so must rotate more . The differential allows for the speed difference . After the differential are the tires themselves , which obviously move the car . The tires are connected to the suspension , which smooths the ride and determines the handling . Most cars use what 's known as a " McPherson strut " type of suspension , which you can Google for some more info . As far as engines go , what makes a good engine depends on what you want . An engine has a number of cylinders and a " displacement " or size . Very very generally
It is the Christian religion , normally referencing either the dominant philosophies held by most denominations or " all " of christianity , or they are referencing the specific doctrine of the church being talked about in the conversation or the dominant denomination of the region they life in . Context of the conversation is what will tell you which they are referring to .
[ Inevitable Caveats , Part 2 : Who is eligible for the income - based repayment program and its improvements ? ] ( URL_0 ) You ’ve got to meet some salary - to - debt ratio requirements . Use [ this calculator ] ( URL_1 ) for help . Students must have at least one federal loan from no earlier than 2008 and must plan on taking at least one more in 2012 or later . Borrowers that are n’t in default . Summary - You have to currently be a student taking out government loans . And you have to make ~~no~~ very little money once repayment starts . And you must never have failed to make payments .
Abrahamic religions are a group of religions that share essentially the same history of the world - God creates the world , Adam and Eve sin , Noah and the Great Flood , etc . * * Judaism * * is a very old religion - some version of the religion has been in practice for at least 3,000 years . * Judaism is very concerned with a number of * covenants * ( holy promises ) between G - d and his chosen people , the Jews . * This includes a lot of rules for Jews to follow , such as not shaving , males being circumcised , not working on the sabbath wearing special hats , eating * kosher * foods , and never speaking the name of their deity . That last rule is taken so seriously that the correct pronunciation has been forgotten , and even other ways of referring to him are often censored or circumlocuted ( see G - d in the previous point ) . Relatively few people follow * all * the rules these days . * Judaism is waiting on a * messiah * , who will bring " The world to come " , where the dead will be resurrected and reunited with their loved ones . Judaism has almost nothing else to say about an afterlife ; though some scholars believe early versions of the religion did not believe in an afterlife at all - instead , the
It does n't . Time passes normally for you even when you 're moving quickly past things . But when you see someone else travelling quickly past you , it looks to you as though time is moving normally for you and slower for them . And actually , it 's exactly the other way around for them - it looks to them as though time is moving slowly for you and normally for them . This seems surprising , but it 's no more so than many other things we experience every day - consider the fact that you look small to them from a distance even though they also look small to you .
Another , more scientific , aspect is that light bulbs are stressed when they are turned on . Failure almost always occurs when you first flip the switch . Although it was much more of an issue back in the days of incandescent bulbs , it is still a factor . Depending on prices , it can be cheaper to spend the extra 2 cents of electricity per night to extend the life of the bulb and reduce replacement costs ; in addition to the purely business benefits mentioned by others .
Checking accounts have unlimited transfers and transactions . Savings accounts do not . A checking is good as a " working account " with lots of funds going in and out . Savings have higher interest but are less accessible . On top of all that , most Americans are n't keen on saving money ( a poor financial choice ) .
It 's to make everyone put their gadgets away . Airplane mode is safe as it turns all the radio transmitters off but they insist everyone " turn their stuff off " basically so no - one uses their gadgets as a ) you 're supposed to pay attention to safety instructions , b ) if anything goes wrong ( take - off and landing being the most dangerous part of the flight ) if people are holding heavy electronics like tablets they could go flying round the cabin and hit someone and c ) just in case airplane mode fails to enable . Of course books are also a distraction , but not quite as much and less likely to cause injury ( unless for some strange reason you have a large hardback with your carry - on )
Really this is no different from any kind of large lump sum and having a mortgage. There are probably many questions and answers on this subject. It really doesn't matter that the proceeds were the result of a sale, an inheritance would not change the answer. I think it is important to note that the proceeds will not eliminate the house 2 mortgage. A high level choice of investment one makes is between equity (such as stock) and debt investments (such as bonds and mortgages). You are in a unique case of being able to invest in your own mortgage with no investment fee. This may tip the scales in favor of paying down the mortgage. It is difficult to answer in your specific case as we don't know the rest of your finances. Do you have a sizable 401K that is heavily invested in stocks? Do you have the need for a college fund? Do you have an emergency fund? Do you have a desire to own several homes generating income property? If it was me I'd do the following in order, skipping steps I may have already completed: I've heard that the bank may agree to a "one time adjustment" to lower the payments on Mortgage #2 because of paying a very large payment. Is this something that really happens? I really kind of hate this attitude. Your goal is to get rid of the mortgage in a timely manner. Doing such makes paying for kids college a
Freedom of choice , even if it is a poor choice - you should still be able to make that choice because theoretically if you only hurt yourself then no one should tell you not to do it . In Australia the tax from the sale of tobacco keeps increasing to offset the bulk of the cost of medical care from smoking related illnesses . Smokers are not eligible for some major surgery such as lung transplants if they continue to smoke , as such , forcing them to quit is part of the universal healthcare requirement . Smoking near children , in public places , private workplaces etc is banned , and if it is not then it is heavily looked down upon as part of our culture due to 20 + years of anti - smoking propaganda . The government knows that getting smokers to quit is near impossible , so what they do is instead they make the cost of starting so expensive , brand recognition so low ( plain packaging laws and total advertisement ban ) that new smokers , especially those that are young , never take up the habit in the first place because it is out of reach . The cost is so high that a pack per day low - income earner spends 20 % of their pre - tax income on tobacco - it is very , very expensive . People still have the choice to smoke , which makes those
I think that in the past there was an effort to make one . There was also a post linked on the sidebar called " The 5 Year Old 's Guide to the Galaxy " or something like that . They were good ideas , but new topics were rarely added , and in my personal opinion , there were a couple of entries that were n't all that great . Not only that , but that did n't stop people from asking the same questions every day . In the meantime , the best thing to do if you want to look up old questions is to use the search bar on the top - right or type something like this into Google : site : URL_0 searchterm1 searchterm2
Most of them are n't very sophisticated - definitely not what most people think of by " artificial intelligence " . They generally just pursue short term goals & follow a set of premade strategies . Most game AIs are made stronger by giving them advantages over human players ( ie - ' cheating ' rather than being smarter )
* 1898 : US and Spain go to War , US captures Guantanamo Bay and uses it as a permanent base * 1902 : Cuba gains independence from Spain * 1903 : a treaty is signed between the US and Cuba wherein the US owns Guantanamo Bay , but pays rent to Cuba * 1938 : Minor changes to the treaty * 1976 : Cuba has a new constitution under the Castro regime . Cuba asks for Guantanamo Bay back . US tells Cuba no . Cuba stops cashing the rent checks for the bay . US spends the next 13 years trying to kill Castro for refusing to accept American money * 1989 : With the fall of Communism , America retires to Jamaica .
As an aside to everything else , let 's say they do find one , it 's not just as simple as phoning someone and shutting it down in a few hours . You find a site , great . Now you 've got to prove that the videos and images on it are illegal . Great . How do you do that ? Even once you 've done that , you 've got proof they are hosting illegal pornography the next step is proving you have the authority to shut it down . Most times , courts have to be contacted . You have to get the right paper work . Even once you 've done all that , you 've got proof its illegal , you 've got the authority to do this , it 's time to contact the hosting company . What if it 's a obscure hosting company who s details just go into a black hole ? Phone numbers do n't work , address and name is fake . What do you do ? Even once you do get to the hosting company , it 's now down to them to sort out . The person will be contacted and then the hosting company will pull the plug . All the time , the person behind the site may know they have been caught and just set up another one . It takes time . So even if we did know where " all
You have to pay the animators . They are experts ( and so their salaries are high ) and you need a lot of them . And you need them to work for a long time . Monsters Inc. Involved something like 500 animators and took about 1 year to animate . If each one got $ 50k , that would be $ 25 million .
Mostly due to work that is often outside of business hours , as well as the often abrupt nature of most of the inpatients . I used to work at a country vet clinic as a vet nurse , and we would charge roughly 1.25 as much for a house call , and then 1.5 much for out of hours service , which includes emergency visits . You need to take into consideration that veterinarians have lives to , and sometimes it is difficult to drop what they are doing to save an animal . The man that owned the clinic , a senior veterinarian , had an instance where someone needed an emergency vet due to birthing troubles with one of their heifers -- but the vet was currently at the hospital for the birth of his child . In short -- it 's because it is out of business hours , an emergency and will often require bit more materials used to treat the patient .
Yes , it does dilute blood , but there are lots of factors in play . One very major point is that you dont just give fluids . They are only given when the patient needs them - i.e. they are dehydrated , tanking their blood pressure or unable to drink . So when given medically , you are replacing the water that would naturally be lost - not adding more and overloading the system . But say someone has sepsis and their blood pressure drops dangerously . When you give fluids , you will dilute their blood . People will talk about dilutional hyponatraemia = for example . Where you add fluids to the extent that sodium is diluted below the normal range . It s rarely a problem - just something to know about . But your body has compensatory mechanisms for everything . If you get too much fluid , your kidney will simply filter more water out of your bloodstream . If you try drinking two litres in an hour , watch as you suddenly need to pee more , and the colour goes from straw yellow to virtually clear .
Orchestra musician here . The conductor of an orchestra usually stands at the front of the orchestra and keeps the time of the piece which the orchestra is performing by waving their hand with the tempo of the piece . That way , the musicians can watch the conductor and always know what beat of the measure they are on , this is n't always necessary , but on tricky pieces it becomes very helpful . The conductor also stands to conduct fermatas . A fermata is when a note is held out as long as the conductor likes it to be . ( Think of the ending of a loud orchestral soundtrack where the last note is held out a really long time . That is the conductor telling the orchestra to hold the note until they out their hands down . ) the conductor also tells the orchestra what to do with dynamics ; loud and quiet , soft or impactful . Also , it is kind of a visual thing to see a conductor in front of a performing orchestra . Not completely necessary , but it looks better . And to answer your other question , depending on the skill level of the orchestra and the difficulty of their piece of music , a good orchestra would not sound significantly different without a conductor except on fermatas where every musician would have to listen to when the other musicians ended their held out notes . Hope
Pure willpower , same as keeping to a workout schedule or not procrastinating . Just buy only those things you really need . Save for rent , cheap foods you make yourself , not eating out at extra cost , that sort of thing . Slowly increase the budget for frivolities as you have money leftover . Do n't forget to put some of the leftover away in savings , though .
The top number tells you how many beats are in a bar , and the bottom number tells you the unit of measurement for a beat . A 4 is a quarter note , an 8 is an eighth note , etc ... The top number can be pretty much anything . If you have 5/8 time , each eighth note represents a beat , and there are 5 beats per bar . You could have 57/4 time , where each quarter note represents a beat and there are 57 beats per bar . The top number can be any number . The bottom number is typically a power of 2 . 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , etc ... to represent the standard half , quarter , eighth , sixteenth notes and so on . There * are * cases where the bottom number can be another number . Usually it 's a time change within a piece , and is done to make it easier to notate . This usually happens when triplets , quintuplets , or some other tuplet is needed . ( A triplet is three notes played in the space of a beat , a quintuplet is 5 ) Instead of having to notate each run as a tuplet , it can be written in standard notation but with the time change to indicate how many notes go into a beat .
i would recommend that you establish a landlord/tenant relationship instead of joint ownership (ie 100% ownership stake for one of you vs 0% for the other). it is much cleaner and simpler. basically, one of you can propose a monthly rent amount and the other one can chose to be either renter or landlord. alternatively, you can both write down a secret rental price offer assuming you are the landlord, then pick the landlord who wrote down the smaller rental price. if neither of you can afford the down payment, then you can consider the renter's contribution an unsecured loan (at an agreed interest rate and payment schedule). if you must have both names on the financing, then i would recommend you sell the property (or refinance under a single name) as quickly as possible when the relationship ends (if not before), pay the renter back any remaining balance on the loan and leave the landlord with the resulting equity (or debt). in any case, if you expect the unsecured loan to outlive your relationship, then you are either buying a house you can't afford, or partnering on it with someone you shouldn't.
Macaroni was a particularly grand , elaborate , and effeminate fashion trend popular among young English men at the time of the Revolutionary War . The song , which was originally an English jibe at the American colonialists , suggests that the colonialists were so naive , or out - of - touch with contemporary trends , as to believe that putting a feather in their hat was the same as " macaroni " .
A lot of prisons actually charge inmates for room and board while they are in prison so they do n't always get a free lunch . As to why all school students do n't ; it is generally accepted that the parents will provide food for their children . In the case where the parents are not able to provide food we already have systems in place to help them out like bridge cards ( food stamps ) and food banks . We jsut are n't always giving food directly to the kids but society is taking care of them . If the parents even with assistance are n't feeding their kids that s where child protective services comes in .
In this environment, I don't think that it is advisable to buy a broad emerging market fund. Why? "Emerging market" is too broad... Look at the top 10 holdings of the fund... You're exposed to Russia & Brazil (oil driven), Chinese and Latin American banks and Asian electronics manufacturing. Those are sectors that don't correlate, in economies that are unstable -- a recipie for trouble unless you think that the global economy is heading way up. I would recommend focusing on the sectors that you are interested in (ie oil, electronics, etc) via a low cost vehicle like an index ETF or invest using a actively managed emerging markets fund with a strategy that you understand. Don't invest a dime unless you understand what you are getting into. An index fund is just sorting companies by market cap. But... What does market cap mean when you are buying a Chinese bank?
PLEASE READ THIS . What everyone else is saying is true about how vaccines build a long term immune response by developing " memory " cells that recognize the virus / bacteria in the future . BUT please remember that you are NOT covered for life with the rabies vaccine . Your doctor is incorrect in telling you this ( and you should tell him that so he does n't spread this to his other patients ) . If you EVER get exposed to rabies in the future , you MUST get the shot again . It does n't matter if this current shot was for pre - exposure or post - exposure protection . A.k.a if you get bit by a rabid dog today , you MUST go get another rabies vaccine shot . This protocol has been made by the Committee for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) which is the governing body for medical protocol related to infectious diseases . [ Here is their site ] ( URL_0 ) where they explain the protocol . Look for the chart that says " Postexposure Prophylaxis for Previously Immunized Individuals " .
Hormonal fluctuations . The body has a natural cycle in which hormone secretion increases and decreases for certain chemicals within the body . Increased levels of certain hormones and decreased levels of other hormones cause your mood to shift . This is why women get so sensitive during menstruation . Not a lot of people know that guys actually have these hormonal fluctuations as well and their cycles can actually sync the same way girls menstrual cycles do .
At the most fundamental level, every market is comprised of buyers and selling trading securities. These buyers and sellers decide what and how to trade based on the probability of future events, as they see it. That's a simple statement, but an example demonstrates how complicated it can be. Picture a company that's about to announce earnings. Some investors/traders (from here on, "agents") will have purchased the company's stock a while ago, with the expectation that the company will have strong earnings and grow going forward. Other agents will have sold the stock short, bought put options, etc. with the expectation that the company won't do as well in the future. Still others may be unsure about the future of the company, but still expecting a lot of volatility around the earnings announcement, so they'll have bought/sold the stock, options, futures, etc. to take advantage of that volatility. All of these various predictions, expectations, etc. factor into what agents are bidding and asking for the stock, its associated derivatives, and other securities, which in turn determines its price (along with overall economic factors, like the sector's performance, interest rates, etc.) It can be very difficult to determine exactly how markets are factoring in information about an event, though. Take the example in your question. The article states that if market expectations of higher interest rates tightened credit conditions... In this case, lenders could expect higher interest rates in the future, so they may be less willing to lend money now
I have curly hair too and I also had the same question when I was younger . Curly hair versus straight .. here we go . So curly hair , when looked at under a microscope is flat , like curling ribbon used to wrap gifts . Straight hair , on the other hand , is noodle or sphere shaped . This is a link to a picture that has a diagram of the hair follicles in trying to explain . When you try to curl flat ribbon with scissors it curls right up . But , noodle shaped , or sphere shaped ribbon can not be curled because of it 's shape . As for why you were born with a flat or sphere shaped hair follicle , that is rooted in your DNA , in which case , although your parents do not have curly hair , they must be carriers of a curly hair gene that they did not present but was then passed on to you , which is a common thing to happen between parents and their children . URL_0 :
1 . Because they 're nice ideas . We die but we become ghosts , so it 's a little like not dying at all , which terrifies us . 2 . Because there are things we ca n't explain - like why do we sometimes get the chills ( [ Cracked did a great job ] ( URL_0 ) explaining things that until very recently were inexplicable ) . Because we 're inquisitive and intelligent creatures , we ca n't handle not knowing something , so we make something up . 3 . Related to number 1 , we just * want * to believe because would n't telepathy and aliens be cool and less boring than life ?
One bit that I feel was missed : You know how the top comment mentions XO , Turner Syndrome ? I.e. a woman with only one X chromosome ? This is what happens when something goes wrong while a set of 46 chromosomes is reduced to 23 to create sperm or egg cells ( the process is called meiosis ) , and one of the end products ( a sperm or egg cell ) ends up with a missing chromosome or an extra one ( Down 's , having 3 of chromosome 21 , happens the same way ) . What has n't been mentioned is that it * is * possible for a fertilized egg to have the sex chromosome combination YO ( an Y chromosome from the father and a faulty egg without an X chromosome from the mother ) . However , there are too many vital genes on the X chromosome for this combination to be viable . It dies before you ever realize you were pregnant . Edited to add : In addition to Down 's , trisomy 21 , it is also possible to end up with trisomy 15 or 18 . Having extras of any other chromosome besides these three or X / Y is similarly lethal .
There 's an entire field of [ historical linguistics ] ( URL_2 ) , which aims to reconstruct the words and sounds of ancient languages . I 'm no linguist , but I 've had an interest in the subject for years . Latin is one of the languages we can best reconstruct , because people * never * stopped using it due to its privileged status in the descendant countries of the Roman Empire . The Classical Latin the Catholic Church still uses to publish documents , and that monks and academics published their works in throughout the Dark and Middle Ages up to the Renaissance ( when writers started using the vernacular ) , may never have been initially spoken by most Romans . Vulgar Latin , which was spoken by the common people , and which developed into the Romance Languages ( French , Spanish , Portuguese , Romanian , etc . , and*not * English ) , was a bit different , and was not as ridiculously formalized . Anyways , what this means is that we have a * huge * amount of text in Latin , including commentaries on the language , poetry ( which may or may not * rhyme * , or use other poetic devices indicating pronunciation ) , songs , and educational materials . We can also reconstruct Vulgar Latin from the sounds and development of the languages it gave birth to , which is the meat of historical linguistics
What you are asking about is geolocation - that is , mapping an IP address ( which is a non - physical entity ) to a physical location . When a service such as Amazon or Netflix wants to determine where you are located , they refer to a geolocation database - a list of IP addresses matched to real - world addresses . The most popular geolocation database that I know of is [ MaxMind ] ( URL_0 ) . How does MaxMind get this information ? Well , from whois lookups . Each region in the world has an IP registry - this is a body tasked with distributing blocks of IP addresses to service providers and companies . In the US , this body is called ARIN . As part of this work , ARIN operates a " whois " database ( who is this IP address ? ) . When an ISP assigns an IP address or block of IP addresses for a purpose , they are supposed to create a record at ARIN that then generates a whois record . These records can contain ownership details , addresses , telephone numbers , email addresses , routing details and more . From the addresses they can also generate a latitude and longitude , just as Google Maps can do when given an address . However , as a home user with a single IP address it is unlikely that your ISP will have gone to the
Hibernating animals have a molecular mechanism to turn off muscular atrophy . In fact , they awaken from hibernation in better " shape " than they entered ( higher ratio of slow twitch oxidative fibers to fast twitch glycolytic ) . However , this mechanism is not fully understood . I worked in a muscle physiology lab during undergrad and we were exploring this exact question , specifically with squirrels . Hibernation is a cycle of inactivity + periods of arousal where there is rapid twitching of the muscles to maintain an above freezing body temperature . I do n't remember exactly how but we ruled this out as the sole reason for lack of atrophy . Short answer : We do n't know yet but it 's a very important field of study with numerous applications to medicine , space travel , etc ...
Objects absorb certain wavelengths of light , and those they do n't absorb are reflected away . The wavelengths that are reflected are the ones we see . So if an object was a pure red , it actually absorbs all colors except for the red , which is reflected back at us . Wavelength of light is inversely related to energy ( that is , as wavelength goes up , energy goes down ) . So , if an object absorbs a whole bunch of low wavelength hues , it is " absorbing " more energy . Given 2 objects that have the same exact properties besides color , the one that absorbs more energy ( via color absorption ) will give off more heat under the same environmental conditions ( and feel more hot on a sunny day ! ) A white car absorbs very little light . It reflects almost all colors , so we see the " color " white , which is actually the blending of all colors . A black car , on the other hand , absorbs almost all light . It reflects nearly no colors , so we see the " color " black , which is the absence of color . Hope this helps ! ----Citations if you 'd like ( sorry for wikipedia)---- Wavelength / Energy -- > URL_1 Black -- > URL_2 White -- > URL_0 Object color -- > URL_3
Lossless audio compression does n't lose any information . If you compress a 100 MB .WAV audio file to about half its size in a FLAC file and decompress it once again , the decompressed file will match the original uncompressed parent file exactly . Lossy audio compression discards information , so if you decompress an .MP3 file it will no longer match the parent file it was created from . It will be " simpler . " Depending on the compression level used an the ability of the listener , this " simplification " will be detectable as audio artifacts .
More often than not , " affect " is a verb , " effect " is a noun . " That moving song really affected me . " " The effect of me being moved was that I cried like a baby girl " There is also a usage of " Affect " as a noun , typically found in Psychology , where it means an expressed or observed emotional response . * edit : typo
We often used high concentration HF acid to etch and structure glass ( quartz / borofloat / pyrex ) in the cleanroom I used to work . From a chemical perspective HF is incredibly dangerous because it easily penetrates your skin and starts interfering with some of your biological processes . Among other things it binds to calcium ions in your blood , which hinders cell metabolism and may cause cardiac arrest ( rule of thumb was that a 10x10 cm exposure area was potentially fatal ) . I also seem to recall being told it may react with the calcium in your bones and make your bones brittle beyond repair around the exposure area , but I am not sure and fortunately we had no accidents during the time I worked there .
My mom 's a librarian for the public US system , and for years she has been telling me that renewal used to require that you show up with the actual book in hand and get it stamped , proving you have n't lost or irreparably damaged it in the process . Not doing this incurs a fine as a means to deter theft . Sure you can take this book and sell it but there 's gon na be a fine and until you come pay it you ca n't use the library again . These days it 's a little different because a lot of libraries have renew online service . Typically you can only renew online a few times before having to bring the book back anyway . Most places also do n't let you just keep renewing forever . This way the book stays in circulation and everyone can get to use the full extent of the resources .
In response to your " Edit : Also , why do we stop accelerating at some point ? " , two possible reasons : ( 1 ) Terminal velocity . That is , you 've reached the speed at which the force imparted to you by air molecules that you 're hitting as you fall is equal to the gravitational force , and thus the two cancel each other out . Zero net force = no acceleration = constant velocity . ( 2 ) You hit the ground .
It 's not really a metaphor . Distance given with an algebraic equation . Calc allows us to see the velocities and accelerations behind it . I 'm not sure if you are criticizing or complimenting the post . Whatever though . I 'm drunk now so Reddit posts from less drunk me and reflection by current drunk me do n't really ... whatever .
" A 2011 MIT study concluded that , although there is little in the way of barriers to a thorium fuel cycle , with current or near term light - water reactor designs there is also little incentive for any significant market penetration to occur . As such they conclude there is little chance of thorium cycles replacing conventional uranium cycles in the current nuclear power market , despite the potential benefits . " URL_0
The Motion Picture Association of America ( MPAA ) is responsible for rating movie content in the US -- G , PG , PG-13 , R , and so on -- so that people have some idea what they might be getting into . The system has been tweaked over the years , and used to feature an " X " rating . Some highly acclaimed movies were rated X , including * The Evil Dead * and * Midnight Cowboy * , but over time the rating started to be associated with pornographic films . To attract attention , some of those films would claim to be " XX " rated or even " XXX " rated . No XX or XXX ratings officially existed , but it can be an effective marketing ploy anyway . The MPAA no longer uses the X rating , but the idea of it remains .
' Storing data ' really involves flipping some bits to be specifically 0 or 1 in some code that translates to what you mean . But those bits were already 0 or 1 before you did that , and they 're surrounded by other 0s and 1s , so to actually know where you wrote your stuff you store that information in an index . When you want to delete it , all that really means is deleting the index entry . The 0s and 1s are n't changed ... there 's no need , because the index entry is gone so you know you can rearrange them later if you want without messing up anything , and there 's nothing to gain by changing them right away . So if someone looks at them again and reads them with your code , they can still find your file even though you deleted the index . To irrecoverably delete something , you need to remove the index * and * reset all the 0s and 1s - perhaps randomly , or all to 0 , or whatever . This is possible with special software , particularly if you want to just rewrite the information on the whole drive or similar . There 's some ( possibly negligible ) possibility that the changed bits could still be detected with sufficiently good tools as in the actual hardware they 'd look a little different to bits that had n't recently been modified
Safer , yes , because everybody is , more or less , travelling in the same direction . As for capacity , it depends . There is a lot of science done on it , so depending on the amount of traffic on the connecting roads , different solutions are best . In order , from least traffic to most : * Uncontrolled intersection * Intersection with right of way ( assuming the traffic is assymetrical ) * Traffic lights * Roundabout * Plane separated intersection In other words , if there is very little traffic , there is no capacity gain , likewise if there is too much traffic , which can cause a roundabout to " lock up " .
The aerodynamics of all cars creates a bubble of air behind them causing a loop affect when it rains . This loop effect causes rain to splash back on to the rear of the vehicle . In an SUV or other trunk less car , this means it splashes onto the rear windows . In a normal coupe or sedan , the rear is the trunk which gets hit the most . So essentially it just not a necessary expense to add to sedan like cars .
So here 's why I think we get crankier when we get more tired : Serotonin is a chemical in our brains that is closely tied with good moods ( many antidepressants are aimed at modifying serotonin levels ) , but as the day goes on , we have less and less serotonin , so we get crankier and crankier . Derived from : URL_1 URL_0
Microsoft achieved a " Computer in every home " goal . They allowed to mass product cheap easy to use PCs ( as for consumers as well as for developers ) . His achievements as computer scientists are not great , he achieved more as a good businessman . He is a founder of one of the most important companies of today .
To answer your second question : > do mobiles phones fall victim to this dame [ sic ] problem over time ? Yes . --- Now to answer the first . Think of modern batteries ( lithum - ion ) as balloons , the charge they hold is the air that you blow into it ( voltage ) . When you charge the balloon , when do you stop ? There 's a point where the balloon will blow , this is also true for batteries ( Galaxy Note 7 being a good example ) . What manufacturers do is limit how much you can inflate the balloon to make sure it does n't blow , however , the limit is usually high because people love big balloons ( high battery life ) , this means if you keep your balloon at maximum charge , the rubber is left stretched and it results in wear . The difference with a lithum - ion battery is that it works both ways , undercharging is as bad as overcharging , so keeping the battery between ~30 % and 80 % is the best . This is obviously not a " true " answer , a real answer requires advanced chemistry understanding which is not fit for ELI5 , instead I 'll point you to a great website that will explain way better than I ever could : URL_0
While I ca n't say for certain , I believe that a record of each printed card is automatically kept by the computer systems used to control the printing equipment . If an extremely valuable , out of print card were to be printed off , it would probably set off some red flag in the system , especially given the market value of the cards . From that point , it probably would n't be hard to check the logs and see who queue up the card to be printed .
Visitations to Chernobyl are highly regulated , and can still be very dangerous if you break the rules that are in place . For example , you 're only allowed to travel along certain routes , as some areas are more contaminated than others . You ca n't touch anything , or bring anything out with you . There 's a dress code , and what you wear needs to cover you as much as possible . And when leaving , you and your clothes need to be checked for radiation . As long as these rules are followed , any irradiation should be well within safe limits .
Basically too much salt can increase your blood pressure ( bad ) as your body has limited ability to remove it . The reason salt increases your blood pressure is due to a concept called homeostasis . Say you have two water tanks with a pipe in between them with the level equal .. if you add water to one , half that water will go into the other and the levels would be equal again .. this is homeostasis . Homeostasis also applies to the concentration of liquids . If you added salt to one of these tanks ( A LOT ) , water would go to the tank you added salt to , to correct the concentration .. in this case the salt concentration pressure ( oncotic ) must over come the pressure of the fluids ( hydrostatic pressure ) to see a change . So if you add salt into your body , you increase the concentration of electrolytes , therefore more water is retained to correct that concentration .. and increased volume = increased pressure .. think about a balloon , as you fill it up with more and more air the pressure increases till it explodes ! = increased blood pressure . Tried to keep it LI5 as possible .. first time not sure if that 's a good job :P
Short version - the table lines them up by behavior , and the edge behaviors start out frequent but get farther apart . Longer Version - One of the biggest ways elements behave is in how they interact with others . The primary way they interact is by sharing electrons . Elements have layers of electrons they like to fill , so if they have one electron all by itself in a layer , they will be very eager to donate that electron to fill someone elses outer layer . If they have a full outer layer , they wo n't want to interact with anything to avoid messing up their pretty outer layer . Now , the reason for the gap - the layers are not the same size . Like an onion , the inner layers are small , and the outer layers are big . So the very first row goes from only one outer electron to a full outer layer in just 2 elements , because the inner layer only has 2 " spaces " to fill . Further down the chart the larger layers take more electrons to fill , so there are more elements between " only one " and " totally full " . More accurate version - take a chemistry class Really accurate version - Many researchers still make livings figuring out more fine details and coming up with better ways to understand why these things do what they do .
Psychiatrist and/or psychologist ? There is a [ manual ] ( URL_0 ) for it with the various criteria . One of the general criteria for personality disorders would be that it " lead to clinically significant distress or impairment in important areas of functioning , " which is really the main difference between an odd personality and a personality disorder .
The acceleration you feel is down to the torque at the wheels which is a product of the engine torque and the total gearing ( gear and diff ratios , wheel size etc . ) . This means talking about engine torque is n't very useful in isolation as you need to know what gearing you can use which is dictated by what rev range the engine can produce torque over . In other words you could have a very low torque engine but if it revs twice as high as an engine with twice the torque , you could get the same wheel torque as you could gear it twice as low . Power is just the product of torque*revs/5252 so basically it takes the revs into account which makes it a useful figure for directly comparing vehicles as you do n't need to know what the gearing is or anything else to get a feel for if it 's a fast car ( assuming it has " appropriate " gearing ) . Basically torque is transformed by gearing but power is an absolute figure that tells you how much work the engine can actually do . Perfect example being F1 vs Nascar , low torque / high revs / low gearing vs high torque / low revs / high gearing but both make similar power and perform similarly . You would predict that if you looked at their power : weight ratios but you would n't predict it
I 'm only surprised it such a small amount . Most if not all the water on earth is supposed to have been th result of meteor impact that originated from a blet of meteors that lies between Mars and Saturn . You would think that Mars should have more water on it than we do on earth . I think they have really only scratched the surface of a very dirty snowball .
Decibels values are actually exponent values . You may have seen scientific notation like 1.4 x 10 ^ 2 . the 2 value is what you are seeing in a decibel notation . 10 ^ -4 is 0.0004 but rather than write down all the zeros they write just -4 for the decibel it is a little differently calculated but the principle is the same . See also URL_0
There are two separate questions here - why and how . I think the ' why ' is fairly obvious - there are some pretty horrific methods of warfare and ways of carrying out violence . In the past it was simply accepted that as an army passed through an area it would rape , loot and steal everything not nailed down , prisoners taken would be tortured and forced to work or fight for the enemy . This largely is no longer the case . Chemical and biological weapons are more or less unused , certainly by major powers , as are mines and cluster weapons . We consider these things too horrific or non - specific - that is , they mostly target innocent civilians . There was no such thing as a war crime before the 20th century - now we have a somewhat functional justice system capable of holding people to account for their actions during war . As to how these laws are enforced - it 's entirely possible . More or less by mutual agreement , gas weapons were never used in world war 2 . Chemical weapons have never ( with the arguable exception of Vietnam , but that was officially ' deforestation ' ) been used in open conflict without the total condemnation of the international community , similarly with biological agents . It works because the amount of damage using such a weapon would do to a country 's diplomatic prospects
It ca n't . ( Did n't for me ) Source : Needed to dial 911 while driving on Highway 101 south . Someone drove off the edge of the cliff , thousands of feet down into the ocean . And then a bunch of other insane / bizarre shit happened . After about 40 minute we finally got to an area that had service after repeatedly dialing 911 over and over nonstop .
It is a compilation of articles about things you see repeated in TV , movies , video games , etc . , often described through funny descriptions . There 's some amusement that comes from reading about them . The reason people say TV Tropes is addictive is because of the format . Most articles are loaded with a long list of specific examples , so you can spend time looking for a specific example of the trope in action . The other factor is that within the articles there are links to other articles . You can easily open in a new tab for a link or two for each article you read and before you know it , you have 20 tabs open . Needless to say , much like Reddit , it 's common to try to use the site for a couple of minutes and end up there for an hour .
The church is a " bureaucracy " ( an administration ) in many ways . There is a reason we use the term Clerical for office work . It had started acting like a major corporation . Facebook & the internet did n't exist . People started a gorilla / grass roots campaign to show what was wrong , and how they were deviating from their " mission statement . " Since the church held an effective " monopoly " other smaller churches started popping up as competition . TLDR : Think of the church as a business . Customer service got so bad that people started their own church to compete and offer better services .
Swallowing does not rely on gravity . The muscles around your esophagus ( and all through your digestive tract ) contract in series to squeeze food through you . This motion is called " peristalsis . " As for getting the food in your mouth , that 's just a matter of getting a food that clumps together pretty well , directing it to your mouth , " Here comes the airplane , " and then nom . Some foods are also eaten from tubes / pouches that can be squeezed directly into the mouth .
Mainboard : Circuit board that lets all your PC components communicate via buses and does some low level computation . Also collects all inputs and deliver all outputs . CPU/"Processor " : Main computing unit . Does all the heavy lifting by getting fed input , memory from your drives and computing outputs . Has small storage named " cache " that is very fast and is basically equivalent to you counting your fingers while adding 2 + 3 . GPU/"Video Card " : The card is technically just another circuit board on which the GPU is located . This is just a specialized processor that is very good at calculating many simple things at the same time ( like the colors of the pixels on your screen ) . It gets information what to display from your CPU , generates images and feeds them to your screen . GHz : Number of clock changes . VERY BASICALLY any processor does this : read data - compute - write new data . Each of these steps take up a few clocks . So the more clocks happen in a second , the more computations take place and the faster the processor works . This is influenced by multicore and general core design so a 3GHz processor from today is multiple times faster than a 3GHz processor from 8 years ago . RAM/"Memory " : The memory banks on your Mainboard . These are 100x faster than your Hard Drives and
The federal government , and most states , set out specific punishments for each illegal offense an individual commits . For instance , the state might order any individual convicted of attempted murder to service 10 - 20 years in prison , the exact number of years to be determined by the judge . When a person commits a single act of attempted murder ( i.e. : trying to kill his wife ) , that person is sentenced to 10 - 20 years . Massive terms of imprisonment occur when someone commits many illegal acts . Take the above example . If Bob tries to kill his wife , he faces 10 - 20 years , simple and logical . What if Bob tries to blow up a bus with ten people on it ? Well , now he 's committed fifteen acts of attempted murder , and can be prosecuted for each one . If found guilty , depending on state law , he might face 100 - 200 years ( 10 - 20 years for each of the 10 people he tried to kill ) . Most states allow judges to alter these sentences so as to avoid the absurdity of a 100 year term of imprisonment , but not all do , and federal judges possess very little authority in this area . As a result , you see those absurd 200 - 500 year sentences . For the record , being sentenced to life still allows
When we form mental images , we use many of the same parts of the brain as we use to process visual images . So , when you bring up a vivid mental image , you are n't able to make full use of those areas to process what you 're actually seeing . Obviously , there is still plenty of information coming in through your eyes , but since you are distracted , it is not processed as thoroughly as when you are focused on the world around you . The same goes for when you bring a memory to mind . I 've often been listening to someone talk , and when something they says triggers a memory , I might not even hear what they said for the next few moments . The brain is n't too great at multitasking .
The letters are the call sign . It 's just the identifier for a particular radio station . There are * almost * always four letters . WXKP 107.1 in New York . KROQ 106.7 in Los Angeles . The FCC regulates radio stations in the US so the stations have to give out their call sign to identify themselves on air . East of the Mississippi river the stations begin with W. West of the Mississippi the stations begin with K except for rare exceptions .
First , to be clear we 're talking about verbal irony . There are other forms of irony , but verbal irony is saying something while you mean something very different . Sarcasm is a bitter remark designed to hurt . It is very often done in the form of irony , but it does n't have to be . Let 's clarify with a few examples : * * * What a fine musician you turned out to be ! * * This is sarcasm and irony . It means the opposite of what it says ( irony ) and is done so with the intent to insult ( sarcasm ) . This is the most common form of sarcasm , and it is why it 's often assimilated to irony . * * * You could n't punch your way out of a wet paper bag . * * This is meant as a caustic , insulting remark , but it means exactly what it says . It is sarcasm , but not irony . * * * The weather is so great ! * * ( when it 's raining ) This is irony , as it means the opposite of what it says , but it is n't sarcasm , as it is n't a jab at someone .
It 's bad because the heart is working inordinately hard . The heart has to push against that pressure . It also does n't necessarily get any more blood to the body since high blood pressure can cause hardening of the arteries . Or it may without warning get way too much blood to an important part of your body , such as the brain after popping a blood vessel . Just like your home 's plumbing is rated to withstand a certain pressure , your circulatory system can only handle so much before things start to break .
They are both European variations . The slash through the 7 comes from copperplate calligraphy , and the slash through the z is found in a few European countries . The slash through the 7 helps differentiate it from the numeral 1 , although many writers are careful enough that the slash is not required and is just an aesthetic choice . I do n't know why the z developed a slash other than aesthetics .
The Sherman Antitrust Act does n't make monopolies illegal . It makes actions in restraint of trade illegal . If a cable company were to try to turn a monopoly in one market into a monopoly in other markets , that 'd be one thing . But it 's not illegal to not have anyone else want to spend the money to build their own system .
Cars crashing into fire hydrants is n't a common occurrence . I had an above ground hydrant in front of my house for thirty years and no one ever hit it . I think that 's more something you see in tv shows . On a side note , I almost lost my virginity to one of those damn things . Kids love to climb on top of them and play . One day I fell on that big nut on top . OMG THE PAIN .
Descartes recognizes that the only thing he knows for certain is that he is thinking , and therefore he must exist . John Locke is recognized for his tabula rasa theory , in which the mind is a blank slate , only gathering form through experience . I suppose the union of the two ideas would be a concept of emergent complexity in thinking , but I 'm unsure what you are looking for .
I worked for Nielsen installing the equipment to measure viewership in households , both in metered market and national . They send out written diary books but there is no way for them to measure what you watch if they do n't come install the equipment and you have no effect on viewership , whether or not you record also does nothing .
Cooking food is not just heating something up . There is a huge number of reactions that happen when food cooks and these reactions can almost always go too far . Undercooked food has n't been held at an appropriate tempature long enough for the reactions to complete , over cooked food has had the reactions go too far . Heat will only transfer through something at a set rate and unleas you are using microwaves it goes from the outside in . Increasing the cooking tempature does nt have a huge effect on how quickly the tempature transfers into the food it primarily increases how cooked the outside is relative to the inside . You sear steaks at 600 degrees so that the outside will get that wonderful browning but the inside will be just cooked enough to denature the proteins a bit but not long enough cause them to bind . On the flip side you bbq pork butt at 275 degrees so that the meat on the inside of the roast has time to cook and the outside does n't burn . Frozen things have to go through a larger tempature change than thawed foods . For some things starting from frozen wo nt cause too many issues , particularly things that are thin , the heat does nt have to go very far so even though it takes a little bit longer its nbd . For other things the additional time it takes for the inside
Its an insurance thing . If a store has fire or water damage , even the sealed / untouched containers need to be thrown out . Yes , there 's probably nothing wrong with it . Yes , you could probably do well having a " Shit that got damaged in the fire FIRE SALE " sale . But there 's no guarantee that the product is n't tainted . Its tricky . As a consumer you demand that that bottle of whiskey or that can of beans is pristine , as packaged from the factory and untouched save the 17 yr old stockboy . But after a disaster you ca n't . Maybe in the flood , the toilets overflowed covering all the cans of beans with fecal matter . Maybe in fighting the fire , the asbestos in the ceiling pipe cladding got knocked down on the merchandise . And then someone licked their fire sale bottle and came down with asbestos poisoning . There 's no way to know , and selling the potentially tainted merch opens you up to liability . Hence , the insurance company says just to get rid of it all . Its a huge waste sure . But due to the overly - litigious nature of our modern life , its an unfortunate necessity .
If you actually have no reception then you wo n't be able to make a call . If you 're * at the north pole and you call 911 from your iphone , you 're not going to get a response . However emergency calls are prioritized above all other traffic , so if you can reach any tower from any provider ( I believe ) they 'll connect you through to emergency services .
In statistics, exploratory data analysis (EDA) is an approach of analyzing data sets to summarize their main characteristics, often using statistical graphics and other data visualization methods. A statistical model can be used or not, but primarily EDA is for seeing what the data can tell us beyond the formal modeling and thereby contrasts traditional hypothesis testing. Exploratory data analysis has been promoted by John Tukey since 1970 to encourage statisticians to explore the data, and possibly formulate hypotheses that could lead to new data collection and experiments. EDA is different from initial data analysis (IDA), which focuses more narrowly on checking assumptions required for model fitting and hypothesis testing, and handling missing values and making transformations of variables as needed. EDA encompasses IDA.
Because they can . When it 's not raining , they will die ( dry out ) if they come out of the ground in the sun . That 's why , in the absence of rain , they generally only come to the surface at night , when it 's cooler and the sun wo n't dry them out . If water has enough dissolved oxygen in it ( which rain water should have ) , the earthworms can survive being submerged in it for days since they breathe through their skin .
I question the reliability of the information you received. Of course, it's possible the former 401(k) provider happened to charge lower expense ratios on its index funds than other available funds and lower the new provider's fees. There are many many many financial institutions and fees are not fixed between them. I think the information you received is simply an assumptive justification for the difference in fees.
1 . Mormons do n't call themselves Mormons . They call themselves the Church of Jesus Christ and Latter - Day Saints , which they shorten to LDS . 1a . " Latter - Day " means they live now , long after Jesus was alive . " Saints " because they try to be holy people . Mormons are Latter - Day Saints . \2 . They believe that a man named Joseph Smith was visited by the spirit of a prophet named Moroni , who led him to a field where a holy text had been buried a long , long time ago . It was written on gold plates , so it could last for thousands of years . 2a . That holy text was the Book of Mormon , which is like a third section of the Bible . The Old Testament tells the story of the Jewish people - the 12 tribes of Israel - from the creation of the Earth to the time when they were released from being slaves in Babylon . They believe in obeying God 's law and generally being good to people . The New Testament tells the story of Jesus , a Jewish preacher who was executed by the Romans about 2,000 years ago and who , his followers say , came back to life after three days . He preached that people should be good to each other and that once we love God , we do n't
There are slight discrepancies in gene expression with regard to how hair color is expressed on body hair vs. head hair , and it 's possible to have body hair of a slightly different color . With blonde hair , you lack pigmentation altogether , while if a gene that 's only expressed in the follicles on the body does code for pigment , then you can end up brownish hair on the body while being a natural blond . It 's not like there 's one gene for color and that tells the whole story - there are multiple genes expressed in different ways that give us more of the myriad of hair colors than just simply identical brown , black , blond and red .
A famous saying among communists was this : " From each one according to their ability , to each one according to their need . " This is not " everybody gets the same amount of money , " because it recognizes that some will need more than others , and thus should get more . But to answer the question : 20th century communist nations were , in practice , what 's called [ command economies ] ( URL_0 ) . This means that the central government made the important economic decisions : how much crops to grow , how many cars to build , how many workers to assign to crops vs. cars , etc . The USA and other Western nations in contrast have a * free market economy * : the government does n't decide these things , but rather the farmers and carmakers decide how much crops to grow and how many cars to build , based on what the consumers will buy and at what price . So the problem with command economies is that they do n't work . The most infamous example [ the famine in communist China ] ( URL_1 ) , where the government planned the agricultural economy wrong and as a result , the country in some cases did not grow enough food , and it others it did not send it to the people who needed it most .
It 's colder at night than it is during the day . Cold things are slightly smaller than warm things . When the parts that make up furniture change how big they are , they move a bit and rub up against each other . This is the same reason why the sidewalk has those little lines put in them every so often . If they were n't there , then when the sidewalk gets hotter , the more space it takes up would n't have a place to go , so it would wind up cracking .
We started with batteries sized A , B , C , D , etc . with A being the smallest and the size being larger as you go farther . Then we started developing things that needed smaller batteries than A size , and they had to think of a way to designate smaller batteries- using more As was probably a good idea at the time . The same situation occurred with star brightness measurements- the first guy called the brightest stars " stars of the first magnitude " the next " Stars of the second magnitude " , and so on , but brighter objects were discovered(like the sun and moon ) however , his set was numerical , and negative numbers are a logical option , so the brightest objects have negative magnitude and the dimmest objects have the highest magnitude . Imagine if you were putting # 0 or # 1/2 batteries in your XBox controller , and flashlights used # 3 and # 4 batteries instead of the familiar designations of AA , C , and D.
Friendly artificial intelligence (also friendly AI or FAI) refers to hypothetical artificial general intelligence (AGI) that would have a positive (benign) effect on humanity or at least align with human interests or contribute to foster the improvement of the human species. It is a part of the ethics of artificial intelligence and is closely related to machine ethics. While machine ethics is concerned with how an artificially intelligent agent should behave, friendly artificial intelligence research is focused on how to practically bring about this behaviour and ensuring it is adequately constrained.
The Constitution and especially the Bill of Rights ( first ten amendments ) outline the basic rules on how the government should be run . More than rules , though , they lay out a basic philosophy on what 's most important ( freedom of speech , freedom of religion , right to bear arms , etc ) . In cases that deal with Constitutional issues , the courts are trying to determine if the philosophy of the Constitution is being violated , which is true no matter what technology is being used .
File server is just a server / computer dedicated to store files . There are multiple ways of creating and accessing it , but the main function is to * serve * as a online storage , so you / anyone can put and extract files from there . Like Cloud storage aka " online Pen Drives " . You can have diferent setups like only accessing some files via username / password or free access , but the main concept is to work as a depository for files , so that you or your team / friends / family can access it from anywhere
Intellectual property (IP) is a category of property that includes intangible creations of the human intellect. There are many types of intellectual property, and some countries recognize more than others. The best-known types are patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. The modern concept of intellectual property developed in England in the 17th and 18th centuries. The term "intellectual property" began to be used in the 19th century, though it was not until the late 20th century that intellectual property became commonplace in the majority of the world's legal systems. The main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a wide variety of intellectual goods. To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time. This gives economic incentive for their creation, because it allows people to benefit from the information and intellectual goods they create, and allows them to protect their ideas and prevent copying. These economic incentives are expected to stimulate innovation and contribute to the technological progress of countries, which depends on the extent of protection granted to innovators.[10] The intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods. Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is "indivisible", since an unlimited number of people can "consume" an intellectual good without its being depleted.[11][page needed] Additionally, investments in intellectual goods suffer from problems of appropriation: Landowners can surround their land with a robust fence
In a cake , eggs act as a leavening agent , thus making cake light and fluffy . In baked foods like cookies , muffins , etc , eggs add moisture and act as a binder . I do n't eat eggs , so I always look for the eggless version of things . There are substitutes for eggs depending on what you are baking .
The general idea of the PRPP is so that small business who cannot afford to offer a plan alone will be able to pool resources with others along with self-employed to create voluntary, defined-contribution pension plans that would be managed by private sector financial institutions. The PRPP concept would offer more options to individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses - Tax Rules for Pooled Registered Pension Plans You can also find an overview here THE NEW PRPP – A Pension for the Pension-Less
Almost all of it is water . For vodka , it is distilled to nearly pure alcohol and water is added afterward to make it more palatable ( with some varieties adding a small quantity of sugar to round out the flavor ) . Other spirits are frequently distilled to a lower ABV before watering down the spirit and can hold other organic compounds from the alcoholic slurry distilled to produce the spirit . This slurry is different for different types of alcohol , but always contains yeast . Brown liquors contain organic compounds imparted from the wood used to mature it . In the case of liqueurs , sugars / flavorings are added after distillation depending on the type of liqueur and brand and are the main other component other than water .
This is due to the electoral college . These two videos are incredibly helpful in explaining what others have stated : URL_0 URL_1 People feel this way about the national elections , but there are still municipal / county / state elections that are far more important because these are " closer to home " and have a much larger impact on the day to day operations of citizens and businesses . This is why it 's important to vote local and have your voice heard . Additionally , even if you do n't like your representative because of his / her party , it 's important that you tell their staff how you feel about an issue , and encourage others to communicate with them that share your viewpoint . Even if it 's against their party stance , if enough of the rep 's constituents voice opposition ( ~400,000 ) the rep will definitely take this into account and speak on it . This is the other problem : on a national level one person 's voice is insignificant .
In my experience linux users are often reluctant in mentioning this in front of linux - fledgelings , but here it is , anyway : Linux is built to make tinkering easy . Windows and OSX are commercial , so the developers want to make it hard to copy it and hard to change the basical stuff ( changing too much stuff might break your OS ) . The points mentioned in this thread are valid . Linux is free and the softwarepackages make it safe and easy to install and find things you need , but most people I know , who use linux , spent an amount of time on customising their OS , that is quite worth mentioning . So far I have not found a way to handle Windows with keyboard only . With Linux it 's a bit crafting and coding , but it 's possible , and when you 're using a laptop with a shitty little touchpad , this is really a good thing . Also Linux comes as a puzzle , that is presolved , but you can still exchange tiles if you want to . But there is not only this option , there are also tiles , that you can just choose from without having to make them . New OS 's often come with a giant pile of funny extras , mainly grafical ones . They eat up your batterycharge like nothing . Windows has the option to shut
There was a man called Jim Fitzpatrick . He was an artist . In 1968 , he made [ this portrait ] ( URL_0 ) out of [ this photo ] ( URL_1 ) by [ Alberto Korda ] ( URL_2 ) . Since this image is so simple to make over and over again , companies decided to use it on shirts , posters and so on . That 's why you see his face almost everywhere .
Just to make sure , do n't believe anybody who says the eye can only see something at X fps . Of course , we ca n't see everything super clearly , but to say that we have a defined limit is inaccurate , especially since fps is a technological term , and is not even applicable to eyesight .
G+ is actually an okay social site . It takes some time to tailor it to be good . Think of when you first logged in to reddit , you unsubscribed from a bunch of generic subreddits and selected ones you are actually interested in . In G+ you do this with individuals . So it takes some time to make it work well . Not everyone wants to spend time on this kind of customization . Most people just want something to work out of the box , so to speak . I think it 's unpopular because google borked it 's rollout . Instead of letting it grow organically , drawing people in as more and more interesting people generate content , google tried to push people in , which has caused some backlash .
Rent seeking is using non - market power ( e.g. political power ) to extract value in excess of the value you are creating . This can take many forms from getting direct payments to reducing competition and raising prices . The general rule is that if an entity is seeking to force others to choose in a way different from what they would choose in a free market , then it can probably be described as rent seeking . It is part of a study in the interactions between politics and economics and is a term used mostly by those who are skeptical of political involvement in markets .
No . A ponzi scheme is supposed to give investors a guaranteed rate of return , usually a high one . Social Security does n't make that promise , and the increase is only tied to inflation . Second , social security was supposed to set up a trust to hold / invest money put into it . Unfortunately , politicians ca n't think long term when they have people asking for handouts now , so they regularly raid social security . Third , a ponzi scheme only works if more and more people come into the scheme because you need additional people to pay out the return . Social Security does n't really need that since the number of people retiring is usually less than the number of people working at a given time . It does get into trouble when the workforce decreases though .
Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary, scientific study of the mind and its processes with input from linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, computer science/artificial intelligence, and anthropology. It examines the nature, the tasks, and the functions of cognition (in a broad sense). Cognitive scientists study intelligence and behavior, with a focus on how nervous systems represent, process, and transform information. Mental faculties of concern to cognitive scientists include language, perception, memory, attention, reasoning, and emotion; to understand these faculties, cognitive scientists borrow from fields such as linguistics, psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy, neuroscience, and anthropology. The typical analysis of cognitive science spans many levels of organization, from learning and decision to logic and planning; from neural circuitry to modular brain organization. One of the fundamental concepts of cognitive science is that "thinking can best be understood in terms of representational structures in the mind and computational procedures that operate on those structures." The goal of cognitive science is to understand and formulate the principles of intelligence with the hope that this will lead to a better comprehension of the mind and of learning. The cognitive sciences began as an intellectual movement in the 1950s often referred to as the cognitive revolution.
Practical or legal ? I do n't know the practical implications , since I rarely carry at all and am certainly not experienced in life threatening situations . Legal ? In most US States , you need a permit to carry a concealed weapon . Not mine ( Vermont ) but we do n't have regulations about open or concealed carry . I believe in some other states , possession of a handgun requires a permit , in some carrying openly is restricted , and in others ... Lord knows . As I said , I rarely carry , but own multiple weapons . From time to time , I happen to have them with me . I have never needed one . In my opinion , people get a bit too excited about the utility * and * about the danger of guns . They rarely , but sometimes could , keep you safe , and they never leap up and slaughter people by themselves . They are just ... tools .
A budget is a predetermined plan for spending allocated funds to a fixed set of categories according to a schedule. If by, "Keeping track of your money" you mean you are only recording your spending to see on what it is being spent and when, then the answer is no. A budget has constraints on three things: Schedule: The mortgage has to be paid at the 1st of the month with a 2 day grace period. Amount: The mortgage payment is 1500.00 Category: The mortgage. Tracking your money would be as follows: 10/5/2016: $25 for a video game. 10/5/2016: $129.99 for two automobile tires. 10/6/2016: $35.25 for luncheon. I didn't like him! Why did I blow this money? 10/7/2016: nothing spent...yoohoo! 10/8/2016: Payday, heck yeah! I'm financially solvent YET AGAIN! How do I do it?! See the difference?
The Japanese army focused on close quarters tactics which can be very effective under the right circumstances . Unlike the European theater of the war where there were a lot of wide open fields , the Japanese fought most of their battles in dense tropical forests or the rugged terrain of China . It was also meant to be a psychological tactic . A bunch of guys charging with bayonets and screaming like maniacs would unnerve all but the most battle - hardened veterans . The average Japanese soldier was n't fanatic loyal to the emperor body and soul but it certainly worked to his advantage if his enemy thought that .
Because DeBeers ( a cartel of companies that dominate the diamond , diamond mining , diamond shops , diamond trading and industrial diamond manufacturing sectors ) does n't want people to view industrial diamonds and mined diamonds the same way . That 's the only reason why : they have a monopoly on mined diamonds and the resources to ingrain whatever view of diamonds they want to into the minds of the general public . Currently , their marketing says that the imperfections in real diamonds add value and that you should buy a natural diamond ring for marriage . Since almost any natural diamonds you buy originate from DeBeers , they profit from it . The problem with artificial diamonds is that anyone with the proper equipment can produce them perfectly . You ca n't have a monopoly on that , and so DeBeers has no incentive to promote them to ordinary people . They do have companies devoted to artificial diamond production , but that 's for industrial purposes ( and they can use their weighty name in the world of diamonds to attract buyers . )
Imagine you are telling someone a list of numbers . You could say the whole number , " 111177774545458882222 " , but that would take a long time ( " one one one one seven seven seven seven four five four five four five eight eight eight two two two two " ) . So instead you say " one four times , seven four times , forty - five three times , eight three times , two four times " . Smaller files are harder to compress because they have fewer patterns in the data .
Because it originally was just a single opening called the cloaca . The evolution towards the current system that most mammals use where they have separated orifices for separate functions is actually an improvement over the system used by birds , reptiles , amphibians and some fish where it is all in one place . ( Some animals like turtles even use it to breath . ) Apparently there must have been some pressure to separate the part where the poop comes out from the part where babies come out around the same time we switched from laying eggs to giving birds to live young , but that may not have been necessarily related directly of have anything to do with being more sanitary . Whatever the reason was the current state appears to be good enough to satisfy evolutionary pressure and there has been no further rearranging of organs and orifices .
GSM phones ( AT & T and TMO in the U.S.A ) use a type of communication where each phone is allowed to talk for a short period of time . ( like old mainfraim computers , time sharing ) In this brief amount of time the phone sends out large amounts of radio waves . When your phone 's transmit time is over the next phone gets to transmit . ( Your phones get to transmit about every 4.3 milliseconds ) This is how a cell phone tower is able to talk to multiple phones at once . Your speakers most likely have an amplifier in them and one or more of the short copper wires on the circuit board are acting as an antenna . This antenna is picking up the short , but powerful , transmissions from your phone . ( Happens at about 217Hz ) Source : I design speaker systems for iPhones and we make sure ( so does Apple ) that you ca n't hear the noise . for those older than 5 check out this link for more in depth sources : ( URL_0 )
Some animals were conscious of themselves way before there were any humans around . Most humans become self conscious by the time they are 2 years old . Magpies , chimpanzees , bonobos , orangutans , gorillas , elephants , pigs , dolphins and killer whales , are some of the animals that can recognize them self in a mirror . Evolution wise for our ancestors , that was about 80 million years ago .
Music sounds better at high volumes . Partially because you can hear more intricacies and you 're more immersed , and partially just because that 's how our brains work . Therefore , over the past few decades , producers have been mastering songs louder and louder , constantly running up against the physical limits of their media ( vinyl , cassettes , CDs , digital media ) . This is so that their songs sound better on the radio without needing the listener to turn up the volume . But there 's a catch . Mastering a song against the upper limits of its format sacrifices dynamic range and intricacies . There ca n't be loud parts if the entire song is at max . And frequencies near the limits of our hearing need to be louder to be heard through more accessible frequencies , but those are lost too . On the radio , these sacrifices do n't matter . It 's the radio , it 's going to sound bad no matter what , so maxing out loudness makes your song more noticeable to the average listener . But when it comes to listening on a system that does n't sound like crap ( literally anything better than radio ) , the song will sound better if it 's mastered quieter and with more dynamic range . Turning up the volume on your listening device does not necessarily have the same catches . It depends on the
The most important and telling line of the song , to me , is There are two paths you can go by , but in the long run , there 's still time to change the road you on . It is that eternal reminder that it is never too late . Whatever great things you want to achieve , never give up hope and always work toward them . Journey with your destination in mind .
The countries in the Eurozone ( not all countries in Europe ! ) all have the same monetary system , regulated by the European Central Bank . However , each country has its own mint -- the coins have a standard size , and a standard image on the obverse , but each country has its own design for the reverse . For example , in the Netherlands the reverse of the one - euro coin shows the king . ( This makes no difference in payment , so you 'll find euro coins from other countries , too . ) The bills are the same across the Eurozone .
This is a reasonable question about inflation. I would just like to note that inflation is nearly zero at the moment. And interest rates are very low. For a stable enterprise, borrowing cash is very easy right now. Naturally, things could change in a year. But the reason a company like Microsoft (but not just them) might hoard cash right now is that it gives them weight for buying up smaller firms, muscling rivals, and signaling their comfort level with the way things look for them. It could also be because they are out of ideas for what to invest in, and/or are waiting for conditions to change before making any big decisions. But with an interest rate at close to zero, and an inflation rate at close to zero, at the moment, inflation is not going to be a consideration in evaluating such a company.
its a very old joke that was funny when being an aristocrat meant something ' special ' : like the nobility . IN those ( old ) days .. you'd never imagine such esteemed people doing such disgustting things so the punchline was pretty funny . These days the punchline is nt so meaningful / surprising , but the joke is still popular among comedians as per ssg_schwartz ' comment from wikip : > The intention of the punch line is in the reading of the joke as a satirical comment on the decadence of the aristocracy .
The whole point of the prime numbers was to get our attention , IIRC . A repeated pattern of primes in numerical order ( 2,3,5,7,11,13,etc ) is highly unusual and improbable to occur in nature . Therefore it has to have an artificial ( aliens ) source . To answer the question , though , math is utterly universal . So long as each party can understand the other 's notation and syntax , any number expressed by one party would be understood by the other .
Diseases are things which harm the body , are n't simply injuries , and which respond to treatment . Addiction is a disease , whether you are addicted to alcohol , nicotine , sex , gambling , etc makes little difference . If someone has increased use despite increased negative consequences , then they should see an addiction specialist for treatment .
Chasing , fetching and tug - o - war games goes back to their wolven ancestry . Wolf cubs would play similar games with each other using sticks , bones , and bits of skin to hone their hunting skills for when they grow up . Basically , they see the ball flying and think , " OH MY DOG THRILL OF THE HUNT YAY " and go running after it .
Random optimization (RO) is a family of numerical optimization methods that do not require the gradient of the problem to be optimized and RO can hence be used on functions that are not continuous or differentiable. Such optimization methods are also known as direct-search, derivative-free, or black-box methods. The name random optimization is attributed to Matyas who made an early presentation of RO along with basic mathematical analysis. RO works by iteratively moving to better positions in the search-space which are sampled using e.g. a normal distribution surrounding the current position.
Gas is the same stuff as solid matter , just all spread out . Every particle of matter has its own gravity ; the gravity of a planet is the combined gravity of each of its particles . Also , gas giants are only mostly made of gas - they 're believed to have solid cores and oceans of liquid .
Ah , something I can explain ! Timeshare means you are purchasing a " share " of a property . Sometimes this is a simple agreement among friends / business partners . For example ... * I want to buy a house at the beach . I 've got $ 150 K saved up , but I ca n't qualify for a loan on a second home . I have four people in similar situations , so we decide to pool our resources . We each put in $ 150 K for a total of $ 750K. That buys us a nice place , ocean front , at the beach . Costs are shared - insurance , taxes , etc . We agree to some sort of selection system , where maybe I want the house for two weeks in June and a month at Christmas ... but Bob wants the house for three weeks in August ( and so on , account for all weeks , everyone agrees to an equitable split ) . And maybe we rent it out a little at peak weeks , just to recoup some of the investment . If we die , our " interest " in that house is transferred to a spouse or child ... or can we can sell the 1/5 share . We just make sure a lawyer creates a robust contract to protect us all . Now , that used to be more common ... but it 's
If this is a business expense - then this is what is called reimbursement. Reimbursement is usually not considered as income since it is money paid back to you for an expense you covered for your employer with your after-tax money. However, for reimbursement to be considered properly executed, from income tax stand point, there are some requirements. I'm not familiar with the UK income tax law specifics, but I reason the requirements would not differ much from places I'm familiar with: before an expense is reimbursed to you, you should usually do this: Show that the expense is a valid business expense for the employer benefit and by the employer's request. Submit the receipt for reimbursement and follow the employer's procedure on its approval. When income tax agent looks at your data, he actually will ask about the £1500 tab. You and you'll employer will have to do some explaining about the business activity that caused it. If the revenue agent is not satisfied, the £750 that is paid to you will be declared as your income. If the required procedures for proper reimbursement were not followed - the £750 may be declared as your income regardless of the business need. Have your employer verify it with his tax accountant.
In a society based on greed , everything is for sale . All politicians have their price which the rich can afford . If a politician refuses to be corrupted , then he is voted out of office . There is a reason why so many people worship money -- you can almost buy anything you want with it .
Actually , quite the opposite . Marijuana is heavily taxed . In the years before legalization of recreational cannabis , medical states like California would be taxed so heavily and unfairly , that medical dispensaries would be put out of business for owing ludicrous amounts of tax revenue up front for the entire year . Often , the laws and regulations governing the taxation of such businesses were subject to change at any time without notice , and the businesses would then be expected to pay back taxes for the entire year from a nonprofit budget that had already donated most of their revenue .
They know where their home nest is , and can navigate back there using [ magnetism ] ( URL_0 ) . The idea is that you raise the birds at military headquarters , then when they 're adults , you cage them and take them with you on campaigns . To send messages back to headquarters , you tie a note to them and then let them free , and they 'll fly back home . Someone at headquarters keeps an eye out for returning birds and reads the attached notes . They do not work two - way ; you can not tell a bird an arbitrary location to fly to , and headquarters can not communicate back to you in the same way . Unless , of course , they have a captive bird that was raised where you are now . Headquarters might keep a number of birds raised at specific outposts and use those to communicate to the nearest one to you , though -- so you might say " Headquarters , I 'm 140 miles south of Outpost X and we 're negotiating with the Evil Skeleton King , would you accept these terms ? " , and Headquarters might send a bird from Outpost X home with the note " Send a messenger 140 miles south with the message blah blah blah . " Birds specially bred for this can travel vast distances at pretty high speeds , and of course , are n't
Rarely ( i mean very rarely ) the binding agents used between a name - brand and a generic are different , and it makes a difference to the patient . Basically , when you get a pill , it 's not 100 % whatever the drug is : it 's actually however many milligrams of that drug and then some easily digestible substance that is smooshed up with the drug to make it easy to take . Sometimes it 's a shell ( like the candy on an M & M ) and sometimes it 's mixed in ( like the chocolate and krispies in a Krispy bar ) . The reason is simple - 2 mg of some drug is so small you 'd have a hard time picking it up , so they add a gram of something else so you can pick up the pill , swallow it , etc . Sometimes the name brand and the generic use different binding agents , and * rarely * you find patients who are sensitive to the generic binding agent , so they have to take name brand . This is in addition to the marketing of the name - brand that the generic does n't have , and other reasons other posters covered .
Bitcoins are like gold coins , except instead of being something that you can hold in your hand , a bitcoin is something that a computer thinks about and remembers . If you have one bitcoin , it 's because your computer is remembering that you have one bitcoin . If you give some gold coins to someone in exchange for a truckload of Cheetos , he will have the gold coin and you will have permanently orange fingers . If you want give some bitcoins to someone in exchange for a truckload of Cheetos , you have to tell your computer to stop remembering that those bitcoins are yours , and to start remembering that those bitcoins are now his , * and * tell * his * computer to start remembering that those bitcoins are now his . Now it would be pretty easy to cheat and tell his computer to start remembering that those bitcoins are his but tell your computer to * keep * remembering that those bitcoins were yours . Then you could spend your bitcoins again and again by just telling your computer to cheat . If everyone cheated in this way , bitcoins would be worth nothing because everyone could have as many as they wanted , so no one would be willing to trade them for anything that was actually valuable . With gold coins , you ca n't cheat in this way , because once you give the coins to someone
What order people 's names are listed in , both in the credits and on marketing materials is often argued over vigorously by actor 's agents , and enshrined in contracts . Going at the start of the list ( or sometimes at the end , often as " and Person X " , typically for start - of - film credits ) is seen as more prestigious . This is why you often see posters with several people on , but the names over their heads does n't match the position of the person . URL_0 When people watch the credits , they 're usually interested in who played the major characters , not ' Surprised Bystander 2 ' . So the major characters should be earlier on . But who 's the most major character ? These things get argued about by agents . Alphabetical order works for films with very few actors in it , but for larger casts , Order of Appearance tends to place the major characters early on , without any insinuation of importance .
The actual nutritional content depends on what you want to focus on . For example , if you want to prevent high blood pressure , then you need something with low sodium content . The lower the percentage , the better . Speaking of percentages , they 're usually based on a 2000 - calorie diet . If something says " Sodium - 17 % " , it means that if you consume 2000 calories in day , 17 % of your sodium intake of the day comes from one serving of this product . Regarding fats , you do n't want ANY Trans Fat . Trans Fats = BAD ! ! Nowadays a lot of companies have realized this and do n't have any trans fat in their food . The good fats are polyunsaturated fats and monounsaturated fats . Saturated fats are not good ( but its hard to find food without saturated fats ) .
Not exactly . The bacteria , viruses , and parasites that constitute " diseases " would keep evolving too . If we evolve our ability to fight them off , they evolve better ways at sneaking around our immune system . Antibiotic resistance has encapsulated this in a relatively short time frame . The problem is that antibiotics themselves ca n't evolve to match the diseases . This sort of evolutionary " arms race " would happen anyway . What do you mean by " progress faster ? " That suggests that you thinke evolution is happening along a fixed line , and that 's not really the way it works . Evolution is still happening . You do n't see as many deaths due to disease or illness in 1st world countries , but all it takes is this ebola outbreak in Africa to show that humans are n't immune to these things . Think of sexual selection too , not just natural selection due to predation and disease . There are certainly traits , both physical and non - physical , that are selected against .
Actually , you would have to test it a lot to know for sure - but the reason it * would * be is relative to how it works with what you are computing . * * So , ELI5 :* * Let 's say you have 2 A+ Students and 4 A- students in math and you give them 10 problems to solve . If they are given 1 - 2 problems per group to solve at a time , the A+ students would probably solve them more quickly . If they are given 4 problems per group to solve at a time , the A- students would probably solve them more quickly . This is how the processors work . Whatever the computer runs has to be capable of splitting its work load between the processors , and at this time that is n't all that common . ( This is assuming their GPAs are an accurate representation of their proficiency in Math , let 's not turn this into a debate about how terrible the American grading system is )
I wonder if the purchaser is not eyeing the team purchased , more they populous around the team . I wonder if the purchaser envisions the local population of the clippers to have a economic boom . With an economic boom , people will have much more money . With more money they will spend more to see sports games and buy 10 dollar sodas . So if there were a place to invest in a locality , look around where the Clippers are .
I used to think about this a lot , when I heard that line of reasoning from my biology teacher , that germs usually ca n't survive extreme cold conditions . I tried searching for answers but could n't really find anything convincing and comprehensive . Believe me , I even went through medical journals and articles to find something but to no avail . This has actually been a contentious research topic in biology and medical fields with no definite answer . In fact some websites I came across claimed that a researcher was likely to get a Nobel , if he could show why people contact cold more often in winters . Now I doubt if reddit has ever helped anybody win a Nobel ( and how I wish that happens someday ) , but there are some probable pointers I can draw out from what I have read . There is a paper that says your body 's primary warming mechanism 's priority is to keep you chest and lungs warm , followed by your nose . Now if you do n't keep yourself warm enough your body would prioritise and work to keep your chest warm neglecting your nose . This leaves your nose vulnerable and provides a passage for germs to make it through your mucous membranes which could have avoided the attack under normal conditions . Another theory says that what people suffer from is n't actually a cold , but cold stress which
There are a few theories . 1 . In their natural habitat the pressure is so great that the collagen in their fins solidifies . In captivity they are in shallower water so the collagen ca n't solidify . 2 . It 's also hypothesised that the lack of movement , and more importantly , turning prevents the fin getting enough pressure . It has also been linked to dietary changes and changes in blood pressure . All in all , it appears to be due to the collagen in the fins not being able to solidify , though the exact causes of that are unclear .
I disagree with the top answer here . To understand anything about why some countries have more technology and some less , must first understand what is prosperity , and why is a country richer or poorer . Let me give you an example , lets first take an example of Robinson Crusoe who got stranded on an island . He catches fishes everyday from 8AM to 5PM and eats them . Since he just landed on the island , he catches these fishes by hand and he is able to catch 25 fishes everyday . Since Crusoe came from a modern society he realizes that he can build a net , and that will enable him to catch a lot more fishes . Unfortunately , he also realizes that he can not just blink and wish a fishing net , he must build it , and making a fishing net requires 5 days of his work . The problem in front of Crusoe is that if he starts to work for 5 full days to build that net , then he wo n’t be able to catch any fish therefore he will starve to death . Crusoe in this scenario faces the problem of lack of capital . He needs capital to sustain himself until he extends the structure of production(that is from using only hands to catch fish , he uses hands to build a fishing net , which he uses to catch fishes . He realizes that
Modern English basically starts right around when Shakespeare was active . One could even argue that , with all the words and phrases and usages coined by Shakespeare , he * made * modern English . He 's also one of the pioneers of western drama ; companies of players and their works were low , common and disreputable prior to Elizabethan times . Shakespeare was one of several who made drama as we know it today into a respectable art form . As for his literary merit , well , I 'm sure you 've heard it all before .
Bears and big cats are largely antisocial . Adult male bears will sometimes eat infant bears to force the mother into heat . Lions are the only big cat with a large social group . Wolves are all social if healthy . Because of this they were able to mesh well with human society . They helped us hunt and alerted us to danger , and we could guarantee them warmth and food . If there were any that wanted to hurt humans , humans were large enough that they could stop that wolf from reproducing . Meaning that the majority of wolves that mated around humans were those that were friendly and therefore that was the gene that was passed down . The # 1 best genetic trait an animal can possess is to be helpful to humans
TLDR : Together we stand , divided we fall . Many pulling atoms pull more atoms than few pulling atoms . Imagine the smallest " mass " you can think of as a tiny man with a little rope pulling on everything else in the universe . Understandably he is n't very strong and does n't pull a lot of things to him . Imagine now that we have a 100 little men all pulling together . They are much more effective at pulling things than the one , because they are all working together , adding their strengths and little ropes . However they are still incomprehensibly tiny , so not much gets pulled anyway . Now imagine 10 ^ 50 ( that 's a one with 50 zeroes following , which is a lot ) little men , all with tiny ropes pulling . They have a * lot * of strength together , enough strength to pull each other into a sphere , pull another smaller sphere of tiny men around and around them , enough strength that nearby things that land on them are stuck there , maybe you 'd have oceans of little water men that add their pull , e.t.c . Congratulations , you have a tiny - person earth with earth - like gravity ! Every atom of mass has a tiny amount of gravity ( as gravity is one property of mass ) . If you have enough atoms of mass together
I once read an article on this , and the following statement stuck with me : > One difference is that the paid AV software might protect you against a certain Virus , that the free one does not . The issue with this is that the Virus is so rare , it 's like paying extra for your house insurance to protect you against a herd of Rhinos breaking down your walls . You just would n't .
In the US , the Democrats typically believe in more liberal policies . They tend to be pro - choice ( support abortion rights ) , support the legalization of same - sex marriage , support government benefits like Social Security and Medicare / Medicaid , and tend to lean toward larger government . Republicans typically believe in more conservative policies . They tend to be pro - life ( anti - abortion ) , oppose the legalization of same - sex marriage , mostly oppose what they call " government handouts " , and lean toward smaller government .
A hair dryer is relies on electric resistance to heat up , this produces heat right away because the energy is quickly converted to heat in a resistor . A car heater is a coil that your coolant runs through . In order for it to get warm the engine needs to run for a while to heat up the coolant first . This can take some time because there is a large amount of coolant to hear up .
That is kind of the point, one of the hopes is that it incentivizes banks to stop storing money and start injecting it into the economy themselves. Compared to the European Central Bank investing directly into the economy the way the US central bank has been doing. (The Federal Reserve buying mortgage backed securities) On a country level, individual European countries have tried this before in recent times with no noticeable effect.
In machine learning, Manifold regularization is a technique for using the shape of a dataset to constrain the functions that should be learned on that dataset. In many machine learning problems, the data to be learned do not cover the entire input space. For example, a facial recognition system may not need to classify any possible image, but only the subset of images that contain faces. The technique of manifold learning assumes that the relevant subset of data comes from a manifold, a mathematical structure with useful properties. The technique also assumes that the function to be learned is smooth: data with different labels are not likely to be close together, and so the labeling function should not change quickly in areas where there are likely to be many data points. Because of this assumption, a manifold regularization algorithm can use unlabeled data to inform where the learned function is allowed to change quickly and where it is not, using an extension of the technique of Tikhonov regularization. Manifold regularization algorithms can extend supervised learning algorithms in semi-supervised learning and transductive learning settings, where unlabeled data are available. The technique has been used for applications including medical imaging, geographical imaging, and object recognition.
processors do the real work on a computer , they add numbers together , interpret stuff you typed in . Basically it 's the brains of the computer . Processors that can do things faster are normally considered better . Processors that can do more things at once are normally considered better . Processors that can do things more efficiently ( with respect to power / heat ) are normally considered better .
John von Neumann (/vɒn ˈnɔɪmən/; Hungarian: Neumann János Lajos, pronounced [ˈnɒjmɒn ˈjaːnoʃ ˈlɒjoʃ]; December 28, 1903 – February 8, 1957) was a Hungarian-American mathematician, physicist, computer scientist, engineer and polymath. He was regarded as having perhaps the widest coverage of any mathematician of his time[13] and was said to have been "the last representative of the great mathematicians who were equally at home in both pure and applied mathematics".[14][15] He integrated pure and applied sciences. Von Neumann made major contributions to many fields, including mathematics (foundations of mathematics, measure theory, functional analysis, ergodic theory, group theory, lattice theory, representation theory, operator algebras, matrix theory, geometry, and numerical analysis), physics (quantum mechanics, hydrodynamics, ballistics, nuclear physics and quantum statistical mechanics), economics (game theory and general equilibrium theory), computing (Von Neumann architecture, linear programming, numerical meteorology, scientific computing, self-replicating machines, stochastic computing), and statistics. He was a pioneer of the application of operator theory to quantum mechanics in the development of functional analysis, and a key figure in the development of game theory and the concepts of cellular automata, the universal constructor and the digital computer. Von Neumann published over 150 papers in his life: about 60 in pure mathematics, 60 in applied mathematics, 20 in physics, and the remainder on special mathematical subjects or non-mathematical ones.[16] His last work, an unfinished manuscript written while he was dying in hospital, was later published in book form as The Computer and the Brain. His analysis of the structure of self-replication preceded the discovery
We have been around for millions of years . Our civilizations are the things thousands of years old . Evolution is not a guided process . Whatever randomly occurs , and works , sticks around . Intelligence did n't develop in some species simply because it never developed or was never needed . That being said , it 's not clear that dinosaurs were n't intelligent . Some birds , which are the modern day descendants of dinosaurs , can figure out puzzles and make simple tools .
You 're getting good answers for how it 's typically done , so I 'm not going to repeat that . However , there 's another very interesting aspect to this question . Getting * actually * random numbers from a computer is extremely difficult . The time - based calculations used most of the time are more than sufficient for video games , but they 're technically " psuedo - random . " They look random to a casual glance , but if you look too closely you 'll start to see predictable patterns . This makes them unsuitable for a few very critical purposes . In particular , licensed gambling with real money , and cryptography ( secret codes ) require much more randomness . There are probably other examples , but I ca n't think of them right now . If you 're working with these critical tasks , you need a source of truly random numbers ; something that wo n't form any kind of consistent pattern . You really ca n't do it * just * with a computer ; you need some sort of analog , physical component to get anything like true randomness . There are some really interesting ways to do this . You can have the computer " listen " to a radio frequency in between stations ( essentially listening to static ) or monitor radioactive decay . Mechanical methods can be surprisingly good , as well ; regular old dice
Any person ( with some exceptions , such as being insane ) can represent * himself * in court . Attorneys need a license to represent * others * in court . Why ? Because if it 's someone else 's life / money / etc . on the line , they need to prove that they are not only competent to argue for the client , but must also follow rules of conduct that ensure that they do everything in their power to only help , and not harm , the client .
1 . A developer buys some land . 2 . Developer builds a nice new neighborhood with nice new houses . 3 . Developer creates a neighborhood government with the power to charge fines and enforce rules . This is called the HOA , and the rules are designed to keep the neighborhood looking nice . 4 . Developer sells the houses . In the contract of sale , the buyer must agree to be governed by the HOA , and anyone they sell the house to must also agree to the same terms . Because of the contract , the HOA has the authority to charge homeowners a fine for breaking the rules , and take further action against anyone not paying the fines . The money earned from the fines are spent by the HOA as it chooses .
Antibiotics kill a person 's natural flora . At the same time , they have been exposed to Clostridium difficule , which is normally harmless , but when the natural flora are gone the C. diff takes over . Fecal transplants are generally provided by a relative to restore the natural flora which competes with the C. diff . When the natural flora is restored , C. diff can not cause illness .
Batteries generate power , and in doing so , the chemical energy stored in them is consumed . Magnets are not a source of power . Just like a rock , If you lift it up and let go it falls . You can do this over and over again , however , and the rock 's " go down - ness " is never used up .
The match is NOT over until the referee calls it . You go until the ref calls the match , no matter what . There are plenty of matches where someone thinks they won , they back off , and the other fighter pops back up . In a fight its rather hard to determine the other fighters exact circumstance , so you let the ref take care of that for you .
So imagine you have two completely separate , giant office buildings with hundreds of offices between them . Alice works in building 1 and wants to send a memo to Bob in building 2 , but all Alice knows is that Bob works in building 2 ; she does n't know his office number . Alice does n't know * anything * about building 2 , except that Bob can be reached there . In this analogy , each building represents a computer network , and Alice and Bob are computers on each network . In between the two office buildings , there 's a small mailroom that handles all mail going between both office buildings . Knowing that Bob works in Building 2 , Alice takes her memo to the mailroom , addressed to Bob , and returns to her desk . The mailroom has detailed records of every employee that works in both buildings , so it sees this memo addressed to Bob in building 2 , looks up Bob 's name in the employee directory for Building 2 and finds his office number . Then the mailroom does something curious : it removes the memo from the envelope and puts a new envelope on it ; this one is addressed to Bob 's office number , but the return address is " Building 1 " . It sends the newly - enveloped memo up to Bob 's office . The mailroom , in this analogy , represents
the atoms in stuff push against the atoms in your body when you get too close , using electricity , sort of like how you ca n't easily push the same sides of north / south magnets together . Your shoes are n't " touching " the ground , they 're floating just above it . Good job flying ! ( BUT WAIT ... details ) That analogy is actually really appropriate in this case , since the reason the atoms push against eachother is due to the electromagnetic force , which is exactly why magnets attract / repel eachother .
It 's because Easter is tied to the spring equinox . The calender was made to match certain dates up to make Easter fall on the spring equinox . Its sort of a weird blend of pagan holidays and christian ones It 's important to note that the winter solstice is n't the shortest day in the southern half of the world . The southern hemisphere has their longest day on that day . So the Gregorian calander has been decided to be sort of a unifying calander
When you do major things like apply for jobs , pay taxes , open bank accounts , or take out loans , you have to present certain information about yourself to prove you are who you say you are . This information is usually a full name , date of birth , driver 's license number , and a social security number . Social Security numbers are the closest thing Americans have to a national ID number ( even though that is n't their purpose ) . Identity theft occurs when a business or agency that has a copy of this information gets hacked and that info gets stolen . If I have that info , I can do any of those things online and pretend I am you . So , I can take out a loan , get the money , and then as far as the bank is concerned , you are the one on the hook because they think you took out the loan .
He had a condition called Vitiligo . It is where your immune system attacks the pigmentation in your skin . To the media it appeared to happen overnight because he hid it so well for so long . By the time the tabloids broke the news , he was reaching the halfway point . Instead of using make up the stay black , he made himself white . It is why he wore the one gloves , it was affecting his hand which hand become splotchy .
Investing is complicated . There are many different types of companies to invest in . Some companies , like Apple , have lots and lots of money . They are a safe investment , and will will investors money over the long run , but will not fluctuate much . Some investors are looking for companies that could one day ramp up quickly and reward early investors heavily . Those companies tend to have lots of risk associated with them . In many cases , companies will be funded by Venture Capitalists because the idea is good . It takes a while before such a company can make enough money to actually turn a profit . That does not mean the company is making zero dollars in revenue , of course . They are just making less money than they spend to run the company . So the key for a company like that is a * trend * of upward moving profits ... i.e. they lose less and less every quarter until they actually cross the boundary and start to make money . Way back when , Amazon was the epitome of this sort of company . People were agog at the number of investor 's lining up to buy stock in a company that could n't turn a profit . Amazon eventually got themselves sorted out . In Q1 2014 , Twitter made $ 250M. That 's still a lot of money .
The most efficient compression algorithms will compress executable code by about 76 % ( URL_0 ) . That means the uncompressed updated is somewhere in the neighborhood of 1 GB . My assumption for what goes on is this : 1 . Download the compressed file - 268Mb needed 2 . Decompress file ~1Gb + the 268 Mb original = 1.25 Gb needed 3 . Delete the original - back to 1 GB needed 4 . Create a temporary partition to boot into that is at least as large as the uncompressed file - 1 Gb for partition + 1 Gb for file = 2 Gb needed ( probably a little more ) 5 . Copy file into temp partition and reboot into temp partition 6 . From temp partition delete uncompressed file from main partition then modify OS ( installing the update ) . - back to 1 Gb needed for the temp partition . 7 . Boot back into main partition ( with now updated OS ) and delete temp partition . - 0 Gb needed at this point So back of the napkin math gives a little more than 2 Gb required at the peak stage . 2.5 does n't seem that unreasonable . The disclaimer here is that Apple may be doing something really clever with how they handle protected addressing and partitioning to avoid having a 1 Gb temp partition and a 1 Gb uncompressed file in the main partition ( necessitating 2Gb of free
I noticed when I was a waitress that customers were less grumpy and uncomfortable in a loud environment . I was always the one to ask the managers to turn down the music if I could n't hear someone 's order , but then I realized overall I got better tips and people were happier when it was loud . I hate it too , but it seems that it 's more comforting for people who do n't want to feel pressured to make conversation .
An art festival held in Black Rock City , the temporary city of 50,000 + people that exists for one week every August in the desert in Nevada . Check out /r / BurningMan for pictures and video and etc . people took this year , and lots of information on how to prepare if you want to go next year . Stories of naked people running around on drugs are overhyped . Certainly there are naked people and people using psychoactive substances , but only in the same vein as there are people dressed like steampunk Obi Wan Kenobi and people playing instruments and people building piano bars and theaters and popsicle stands and etc . Biggest thing to know if you want to start planning , is this is a * desert . * Not even sand , it 's a vast flat desert of baby - powder fine gypsum dust . No water , no plants , no bugs , not even scorpions live out there . Temperatures can be 120 in the day and 40 at night . Winds can pass 70 mph , ripping up tents and causing blinding dust storms . Shelter structures have to be staked down with 18 " rebar hammered into the ground with a sledge hammer . The BRC dept . of public works supplies porta - potties , but that 's it ; the food , shelter , and vitally important water you need to survive there for a
Okay . The picture is misleading . When you subtract the corners of square the perimeter is indeed still 4 . And when you continue to subtract the perimeter is indeed still 4 . But the problem is with the big sides that still remain . The rate at which the bigger sides get smaller is not fast enough to make a smooth curve around the circle . The shape will always be jagged .
As an introvert , I think of being in public almost as a performance . Performing can be fun , but it is also very stressful and you can not keep it up for long ! Sometimes you just need to go backstage and relax . Of course , you ca n't spend your whole life backstage because you get lonely . We just do n't want to spend it all in the spotlight . Extroverts do not get drained by social situations , they actually get charged by them .
Gold has historically been a universal means of trade . If you need food and have a house to offer , but the person with food wants a gun then your outta luck . But if you can get gold for your room , and use the gold for food , and the guy who gives you food can use the gold for his gun ... then the system works . The idea is that gold 's value transcends individual currencies , so it does n't matter if you have dollars or euros or yen , etc . Even if the countries collapse , or at least the values of their currencies collapse , the gold will retain value .
OK , I think I 've figured it out folks . Americans and English people have very different definitions of what those words mean . Basically , the Yanks have taken a relatively simple concept and reversed the meanings just for the sake of making life difficult for themselves . If you 're British : carry on , you 're doing fine . If you 're American : do n't worry about it , you 've already made it a irreparable mess .
You can open Savings Bank Account with some Banks that offer better interest rate. Note there would be restriction on number of withdrawals in quarter. There are better interest rates if you lock in for 90+ days. The other option to explore is to open a Demat / Brokrage account and invest in liquid funds. Note depending on various factors it may or may not suite your requirements.
The word " prove " also means test . Think of the phrase " proving grounds " . That 's a place where you test things . So translate " the exception proves the rule " to " the exception tests the rule " . That is , you thought you had a rule , but now that you 've found an exception , that 's a test that shows it is n't true . Another example of this meaning is " the proof of the pudding is in the tasting . " That is , you test how good the pudding is by tasting it .
Socialism , at it 's root is the idea that we all live in a society , and depend on eachother , and therefore should decide stuff together . Typically , this goes beyond merely the political . For example , employees should have some say in how the company they work for should be run , parents should have a say in how the school their children attend is run , etc . Wikipedia assures me that in English this is called co - determination . The next step , is that if you already depend on eachother , and decide stuff together , you have some responsibility to take care of eachother . There 's dozens of variation on these basic ideas . In Western Europe there 's a lot of Social Democracy , which seperates the idea of decisionmaking and ownership , so that for example employees might have certain rights to make decisions for the company they work for , but does not entitle them to a share of the profit , or to make decisions that do not directly affect their work . Another type of socialism is communism . This is based on the writing of Marx , and the basic idea is that the right to decide and ownership are inextricably linked , and belong to all people together . The way communism is supposed to organize this , is by people working together , sharing together and deciding together in councils (
If that money was in an IRA or another tax deferred account , your parents never paid taxes on it in the first place . They would be required to pay taxes on it as it is withdrawn , and so are you . The deceased 's IRA rolls over into what is called a beneficiary IRA . You have to make required withdrawals from it when the deceased turns 70 , just as they would ... but the withdrawal amount is based on your life expectancy , so if you are young , the amount would be very small , and it would continue to grow tax free , likely in excess of the withdrawal amount . Or you could liquidate it immediately , and pay about half of it to taxes and penalties . Option # 1 is better for most people , I recommend consulting with a financial planner .
Is [ this ] ( URL_0 ) article what the topic is about ? If that is it , it 's worse than that . Since the switch from analog to to HDTV I remember spectrum auctions with the supposed benefit of free or inexpensive wifi for the public . Spectrum auctions keep happening but the benefit to the public never happens . So the telecoms buy the spectrum and then lock out any competition and do n't ' really use it .
The difference between " protected speech " and " socially acceptable speech " seems to be lost on everyone ... Free speech protects you from government censorship . As long as you do n't incite violence , you can be as racist , sexist , ageist , etc . as you want . Free speech DOES NOT protect you from the consequences of your speech . People can hate you , fire you , shame you , ostracize you , all without infringing your free speech .
$260k mortgage is pretty high for $80k salary alone -- if you have expensive tastes, be prepared to tune them down. The make or break for you will be taxes and other recurring fees. If property taxes are trending higher than inflation in your area, you'll have trouble down the line. Decisions like this are really market driven, and I don't know much about Salt Lake City. In general, condo values get punished relative to single-family homes during bad market conditions. So if this is a really nice condo in a good building in a desirable part of the city you're probably going to see the value of the property increase as the general economy improves. If the property is good, go for it.
The criminal investigation of the allegations levied against him and his lawsuit with regards to his dismissal from the CBC are separate entities . Reporting on the allegations against him does not necessarily impact the outcome of the lawsuit . Plus , it would make it a * really * easy way to suppress news coverage if suing people was all it took . Perhaps he could sue all the news media groups ... I'm sure he could find something to file a lawsuit over , and even if its bogus , that can take a while to clear up .
Imagine you and a friend are standing still , but you are 20 feet apart . There is a swarm of people stomping around randomly . The crowd is so thick people are nearly touching all of the time , like at a concert . You get pushed around , back and forth randomly , but you and your friend stay roughly the same distance apart . Now , lets say you get close enough to your friend that it 's harder and harder for someone to get in between you , eventually the crowd will push you together , because there is nothing between you to push you apart , and the only force on your is from the outside . Now imagine that you and your buddy are the plates and that different frequencies of energy are the people .
A shadowy organization which controls the world according to various conspiracy theories . Any details beyond that vary depending on which conspiracy theory you believe . The Illuminati was a real 18th century organization which embraced Enlightenment values . That is , the sort of democratic values we now take for granted . This was considered very leftist in the 18th century , so the rightist conspiracy theorists of the 18th century blamed the Illuminati for the French Revolution . After that , it was blamed for other disliked leftist movements . After a 200 - year - long game of " telephone " , it finally ended up as a generic evil organization .
Well , the cells do n't exactly " know " what the DNA means , per se . The process of converting genes ( DNA ) into their functional output , typically proteins , begins with a process called transcription . During this process , an enzyme ( a type of protein ) scans the DNA and makes a copy of a gene . But , instead of copying it in the form of DNA , it makes a copy of it in the form of RNA . A good analogy to this would be if your mother emailed you a recipe and you did n't have a printer handy , so you wrote instead , you write it down . The message still says the same thing , but it is in printed handwriting instead of electronic data . The next step in the process is converting that RNA information into something that is functional , a protein . This happens in a cell structure called the ribosome . The newly created RNA enters the ribosome , and through a process called translation . Essentially , the ribosome " decodes " the RNA and translates it into the language or proteins . A cells in every living organism convert the RNA information into proteins using the same genetic code by reading it in three letter ( A , C , G , T ) chunks called codons . The codons tell the ribosome how to build the protein and
It 's about what was considered acceptable at the time . Many at the time were concerned about corrupting the youths of the day . Even Elvis in his early days could not be shown waggling his hips because it was considered to raunchy . This is not a new concept , even the ancient Greeks were worried about how their youngsters the turning out . Many from that time saw it as perfectly reasonable to be racist and homophobic . Over time what is acceptable changes , no doubt in fifty years people will be amused by the censorship of today .
One reason insects react so differently to many toxins is because their digestive tract is alkaline in contrast to the acidic environment of the vertebrate intestines . A different pH may render some toxins less harmful and others more so . A common " food contaminant " for insects is * Bacillus thuringiensis * , a species of bacteria which lives in the soil ( and on leaves ) and basically produces a crystalline toxin that can only be dissolved in the alkaline digestive tract of insects . However , it 's non - toxic to humans because the crystals pass our digestive system undissolved . This is why * B. thuringiensis * is sprayed on crops to prevent damage caused by larvae . TL;DR : Their digestive system makes insects vulnerable to different bacterial toxins . Yes , they can suffer from certain food poisonings .
This is somewhat more complicated than most believe and you rarely hear the real philosophy behind why its done . The value of currency is generally greatly miss understood . Thus I am going to ask you to consider some different points other than what you usually hear and to get there we are going to have to tell a little story . I came about this after working in Asia for a decade and realizing many in the west greatly misunderstands China 's economy works and how they are controlling their currency . Ironically I have concluded China may be onto something that the West has missed and has thus allowed China to develop so fast and personally wish those in the west would stop blaming China and realize they have a problem in their own economies that needs addressing . The key word is macroeconomic efficiency and the following is an attempt at a very basic outline of why its important . Since its complicated , I 'm only going to give you the icing with no cake and let you think about the details . Hopefully it will spark some discussion . Ideally currency is a mechanism that is used to reward productivity . That is if you contribute something to someone else then in return you get currency from that and can use it to get someone else to do something for you . Ideally currency has a strong correlation to the amount of work that
No, it is never impossible to get credit so long as there are no price controls or quotas. In most of the United States, the impetus for housing is so strong that it's one sector of credit that has nearly no price regulation, price in this case being interest rates. Corporate banks will not touch you now because Dodd-Frank now makes them liable to you and investors if you default on the mortgage. Also, Fannie & Freddie, who ultimately finance most mortgages in the US now require banks to buy back loans if they fail, so banks are only financing the most creditworthy. All is not lost because markets are like rivers if not fully dammed: they find a way through. In your case, you can get a fully-financed mortgage if you're willing to pay interest rates probably double what you could otherwise get in the market with good credit. If the foreclosure process is quick and benefits the lender more in your state, the interest rate will be even lower. Your creditors will most likely be individuals you find at mortgage investment clubs and religious institutions. If you shop around, you'll be surprised at how low a rate you might get. Also, since the cost of your prospective home is so low, it's very easy for an investor flush with cash and few investments to take a flier on a mother committed to her children who only needs $50,000. The FHA has been vastly expanded, and since your individual
In an accounting position, a domain name would fall under an intangible asset. Copyrights and patents are intangible, while tangible assets would be buildings or land (also known as property, plant, and equipment). Noting above, you can list it as an expense for personal reasons, but that would be poor classification. Tangible and intangible assets come with expenses such as legal fees and design. In these instances, you would expense the cost, or fee, but add back that value to the tangible or intangible as it would be considered maintenance. Please read here for tax treatment of a domain name. Please read here for what an intangible asset is. Also read here on page 11 for more clarification by IFRS.
It 's from a dry nail bed . Most people over the age of 25 have them simply from washing their hands a lot throughout the day , which removes oils . Once the ridges are there the next bit of nail tends to grow with the same ridge pattern , so they do n't really go away once you have them . They are n't Beau 's Lines . which are horizontal depressions in the nail that might be caused by infection or injury .
is your question related to the US - China hacking story in the news ? The US are actually charging 5 specific individuals , and there s not really a lot we can do to get them to a US court : URL_0 > In an indictment in the western district of Pennsylvania , the heart of the US steel industry , the US named Wang Dong , Sun Kailiang , Wen Xinyu , Huang Zhenyu , and Gu Chunhui , all officers in Unit 61398 of the Chinese People 's Liberation Army ( PLA ) , as the alleged conspirators . URL_1 > No - one thinks these officers , presumably acting on the instructions of their government , will end up on trial in a US court . The long arm of the law does n't reach to Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the People 's Liberation Army in Shanghai . ( BBC 's good for this stuff )
I 'm no expert but I have happened to personally been a subscriber to Stratfor for the better part of the past year so I 'll try to shed some light onto the situation . Also the elementary school - level answer is going to be difficult so I will probably reserve that for a TL;DR Stratfor is essentially a privatized intelligence gathering source with a specialty in international security issues . This means that they care less about Polio in India or Poverty in Venezuela unless they can explain how it would effect politics in such a way as to interest people involved in security issues . As an example of this , this morning they sent me an email on crackdowns on gang violence in Nigeria , Mexican drug cartel violence escalating in Guanajuato and the current positions and movements of the U.S. Navy . From a personal standpoint , I love the service as it provides a very concise and no nonsense take on events involving lots of complexity . It does n't show much room for bias in most issues and correctly separates analysis and events . The leaked emails from Stratfor appear to show the ugly side of how the company accomplishes its tasks including the pressuring of employees to use sex in order to convince intelligence targets . This specific case involves a Stratfor employee being expected to use her sexuality in order to convince an Israeli spy to reveal secret information involving the
In 1787 : There was a fight between the big states and the little states . This deal calmed both sides down since it helped both sides . The bigger states got more electoral college votes , but the smaller states are over - represented . How are smaller states over - represented ? Every state gets at least 3 votes , no matter how small they are . Then , you get more votes as your state gets bigger . So let 's say you have a state that has 100 people in it . It 's very small . Here , the three votes are divided among 100 people , so each person 's vote counts for .03 of an electoral college vote , which are what actually decide the winner . In a bigger state , though , there are 200 people . That 's enough to get 2 more votes , since you get an extra vote every 50 people ( after the first 100 ) . These 200 people are sharing 5 votes , so each person only gets .025 of a vote . Obviously , .03 is more than .025 , so people in the smaller states have a bigger electoral vote . That said , the bigger state still has more votes than the smaller state , so it has a bigger all - around impact . Today : In addition to needing 2/3 of Congress to agree ( which is pretty hard
" Disease " is just an abnormal condition affecting the body of an organism . It is a broad term covering more than infections ; having your arm cut off would also technically be a disease . If you do n't like the term then you do n't have to use it , but that is what you get when using medical terminology .
Neural networks , especially LSTMs , are definetly one part of what we need for AGI ( or " true " AI ) . But we wo n't get there with just neural networks . We are extremely close but we need to invent something we do n't have yet . Our brain is a bit more complicated then just a simple LSTM . It does n't just take n inputs and give n outputs , it 's an interconnected net with many different parts that evaluate different things . We also have a highly advanced long term and short term memory . Once we are able to replicate this , we are even closer .
Sir Arthur Charles Clarke CBE FRAS (16 December 1917 – 19 March 2008) was an English science-fiction writer, science writer, futurist, inventor, undersea explorer, and television series host. He co-wrote the screenplay for the 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey, widely regarded as one of the most influential films of all time. Clarke was a science fiction writer, an avid populariser of space travel, and a futurist of a distinguished ability. He wrote many books and many essays for popular magazines. In 1961, he received the Kalinga Prize, a UNESCO award for popularising science. Clarke's science and science-fiction writings earned him the moniker "Prophet of the Space Age". His science-fiction writings in particular earned him a number of Hugo and Nebula awards, which along with a large readership, made him one of the towering figures of the genre. For many years Clarke, Robert Heinlein, and Isaac Asimov were known as the "Big Three" of science fiction. Clarke was a lifelong proponent of space travel. In 1934, while still a teenager, he joined the BIS, British Interplanetary Society. In 1945, he proposed a satellite communication system using geostationary orbits. He was the chairman of the British Interplanetary Society from 1946 to 1947 and again in 1951–1953. Clarke immigrated to Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) in 1956, to pursue his interest in scuba diving.[10] That year, he discovered the underwater ruins of the ancient original Koneswaram Temple in Trincomalee. Clarke augmented his popularity in the 1980s, as the host of television shows such
HE and I agree with Jane . Jane asked him and me to leave . The easiest way to figure out which to use is to simply remove the other person ! " I agree with Jane " , not " Me agree with Jane . " " Jane asked me to leave " , not " Jane asked I to leave "
Because among the very first subjects cut ( 30 years ago ) from public school curricula were civics and critical thinking skills , leaving students inundated with cultural norms derived from profit - driven , entertainment - centered media -- and this all happened during a series of economic bubbles that inflated personal expectations of material reward far beyond reality . During that same period , unions were under direct attack from the corporate - funded political right . Many Americans under 40 seem to have almost no concept of common good , let alone how their own government is supposed to work . And all Americans , old and young , have been bombarded with corporate - sponsored anti - tax , anti - federal scapegoating that only seems to be spontaneous grassroots sentiment -- it 's all Astroturf , but few have been able to see that until now . The internet , esp . conversational media , are making some headway in fixing this , but changing the paradigm will be a long , hard slog . This is n't exactly LI5 , but it 's a huge question .
A metal is generally a material that is hard , usually shiny , and can be shaped . It can either be an element or a mixture of elements . A metal that 's made up of a mixture is called an alloy . Steel for example , is a mixture of iron and carbon . Bronze is a mixture of copper and tin . The rare earth metals are a specific group of elements on the periodic table . They 're not actually that rare , they 're just harder to extract from the earth than other metals like copper or iron . " heavy metals " refer to any metal that 's extremely dense ( a brick of it is heavy for its size ) . Usually , the term is used to refer to metals like lead or mercury that are toxic if they get into your body .
When you go out on the playground , you play . You can play on the playground . Maybe play in the field . You are free to pursue your own agenda . On the fascist playground . You are merely a single piece in a larger organization with a singular goal . Maybe you line up and sing songs about how great the fascist school is . Maybe you are on the playground polishing team that makes the monkey bars shine the best because the fascist school has the cleanest playground .
ANY cell can get cancer . Your professor is likely citing a statistic that suggests that breastfeeding lowers chances of cancer significantly , but I think it 's naive to say milk production completely stops cancer development . Cancer is a specific mutation of your cells that basically means your cells are n't told to die anymore . They grow uncontrollably . I 'm not sure of the correlation between breastfeeding ( or milk production ) and cancer growth , but * all * cells can mutate in this way . It 's just that ; like smoking increases the risk of this mutation , so can breastfeeding reduce that risk . Frighteningly , * anyone * can develop cancer . But , to bring this full circle , I do n't see how producing milk necessarily would stop cancer development on its own .
If you start with any two numbers and add the previous two to get the next one you 'll tend towards the the golden ratio ( ~1.6180 ... ) ... 1 , 2 1.500000 = 2/3 1.666667 = 3/5 1.600000 = 5/8 1.625000 = 8/13 1.615385 = 13/21 1.619048 = 21/34 1.617647 = 34/55 1.618182 = 55/89 1.617978 = 89/144 1.618056 = 144/233 1.618026 = 233/377 1.618037 = 377/610 1 , 3 1.333333 = 3/4 1.750000 = 4/7 1.571429 = 7/11 1.636364 = 11/18 1.611111 = 18/29 1.620690 = 29/47 1.617021 = 47/76 1.618421 = 76/123 1.617886 = 123/199 1.618090 = 199/322 1.618012 = 322/521 1.618042 = 521/843 1.618031 = 843/1364 1 , 4 1.250000 = 4/5 1.800000 = 5/9 1.555556 = 9/14 1.642857 = 14/23 1.608696 = 23/37 1.621622 = 37/60 1.616667 = 60/97 1.618557 = 97/157 1.617834 = 157/254 1.618110 = 254/411 1.618005 = 411/665 1.618045 = 665/1076 1.618030 = 1076/1741 1 , 5 1.200000 = 5/6 1.833333 = 6/11 1.545455 = 11/17 1.647059 = 17/28 1.607143 = 28/45 1.622222 = 45/73 1.616438 = 73/118 1.618644 = 118/191 1.617801 = 191/309 1.618123 = 309/500 1.618000 = 500/809 1.618047 = 809/1309 1.618029 = 1309/2118 1 , 6 1.166667 = 6/7 1.857143 = 7/13 1.538462 = 13/20 1.650000 = 20/33 1.606061 = 33/53 1.622642 = 53/86 1.616279 = 86/139 1.618705 = 139/225 1.617778 = 225/364 1.618132 = 364/589 1.617997 = 589/953 1.618048 = 953/1542 1.618029 = 1542/2495 Edit : /u / Not_Me_But_A_Friend already said it before me but his comment
Are there banks where you can open a bank account without being a citizen of that country without having to visit the bank in person? I've done it the other way around, opened a bank account in the UK so I have a way to store GBP. Given that Britain is still in the EU you can basically open an account anywhere. German online banks for instance allow you to administrate anything online, should there be cards issued you would need an address in the country. And for opening an account a passport is sufficient, you can identify yourself in a video chat. Now what's the downside? French banks' online services are in French, German banks' services are in German. If that doesn't put you off, I would name such banks in the comments if asked. Are there any online services for investing money that aren't tied to any particular country? Can you clarify that? You should at least be able to buy into any European or American stock through your broker. That should give you an ease of mind being FCA-regulated. However, those are usually GDRs (global depository receipts) and denominated in GBp (pence) so you'd be visually exposed to currency rates, by which I mean that if the stock goes up 1% but the GBP goes up 1% in the same period then your GDR would show a 0% profit on that day; also, and more annoyingly, dividends are distributed in the foreign currency, then exchanged by the
All margin is marked to market. Option longs do not post margin because long margin trading is forbidden. Equity longs must post margin if cash is borrowed to fund the purchase. Shorts of all kinds must post margin, and the rates are generally the same: a few standard deviations away from the mean daily change of the underlying. A currency futures trader, because of the involatility of most major monies, can get away with a few percentage points. Commodities can get to around 10%. Single equities are frequently around 20%, while indices can get back down to 10%. A future is a special case because both sides are technically short and long at the same time. The easiest example to perceive is a currency future. Which one is the buyer and which is the seller? Both and neither. Contracts may be denominated for one side as the seller and the other the buyer, but contractually, legally, and effectively, both are liable to the other, and both must take delivery. For non-currency assets, it only appears as if the cash seller is the buyer because cash is not considered an asset in the same way all other assets are, but the "long" is obligated to sell cash and buy the "asset".
The way to invest money in a company is to buy its shares, or derivatives of its shares. However, it seems you're way in over your head. Don't buy what you don't understand. There is plenty of material to teach you about stock investing on the internet. However, a book may be the fastest way to learn what you need to know. And yes, there is a "for dummies" book about that: Stock Investing ForDummies. I just found it by Googling, I'm sure you can find even more interesting books out there. (Note, the link is to the "cheat sheet" in the back of the book. The full book is worth reading.)
Yes. In the US these are called certificates of deposit or savings accounts. Every run-of-the-mill bank offers them. You give the bank money and in return they pay you an interest rate that is some fraction of or (negative) offset from the returns they expect to make from your money. Since most investments that a bank makes (say, loaning money to a local business) are themselves based on some multiple of or (positive) offset from the prime rate, in return the interest rate that they offer you is also mathematically based on the prime rate. You can find lists of banks offering the best returns on CDs or savings accounts at sites like BankRate.
Very , very carefully . They 'd normally avoid it , and subway tunnels go under roads : but if they dig deep enough to avoid weakening the foundations of a building , it can be done , assuming the local geology will allow . Sometimes buildings may be built with the expectation that a subway tunnel will be built under it in the near future , and the foundations designed accordingly . It does n't always go well , though . In 2009 , construction of a subway line near the Historcal Archive of the City of Cologne , Germany , caused the ancient building and two other buildings to collapse , mercifully causing only two deaths . However , 90 % of the archive , including documents going back to the year 922 , was buried . About 85 % of them have been recovered , but some of them badly damaged . A new building is due for completion in 2017 , but restoring the documents is likely to take another 30 years . The tunnel was n't even under the building , but next to it , and being built using the traditional " cut and cover " method . But water seeped out of the tunnel and into the buildings ' foundations ; workers were able to raise the alarm in time , hence the very few casualties , but only just .
Humour is based on surprise : Laughing and such is a reaction * to * surprise . It 's why it 's nowhere near as funny if you already know the punchline . When you 're super tired , your reaction time goes down , and you sort of " think more shallowly " , basically that you 're not processing things as quickly or as well , so you tend to be surprised more easily ( or even to be surprised by things that otherwise would n't surprise you at all ) .
If the answer is " him , " use whom . If the answer is " he , " use who . " Who is going to catch that snake ? " " * He * is . " " Whom did you give the snake to ? " " I gave it to " * him * . "
A lot of it has to do with psychology and the way our peers and society react to bugs . I mean , a cockroach in and of itself is not something that is particularly deadly . It 's one of the cleaner bugs and do n't normally bite , but we 've learned to associate it with filth and as something " gross . " Many people will jump or scream at the sight of it however , just because other people do the same thing , and if a 5 year old sees grown adults jumping and screaming at a pest , they 're bound to follow suit or pick up a similar mentality .
Two reasons : 1 ) Often because their understanding is poor , and scientists often do a horrible job of explaining . Many people think embryonic stem cells from abortions , which is incorrect . In fact they come in - vitro fertilisation ( i.e. artificially injecting donated eggs with sperm ) . When couples go for IVF , because they can not conceive naturally scientists fertilise several eggs ( usually around 20 ) in a dish . Obviously nobody wants to be implanted with 20 fertilised eggs , so there are spares left over . They would either go in the bin , or they can be used for research . That 's where scientists get their stem cells from . Embryonic stem cells are only present during very early stages after the sperm fertilises the egg . This is called the blastocyst . If this was taking place inside a woman , she would NOT be pregnant at this stage . A woman is only pregnant after the fertilised egg implants into the uterus wall . Thus , embryonic stem cells are not in any way related to abortions . 2 ) Technically , a fertilised egg * could * be considered as the start of life . The egg carries one set of chromosomes ( 23 ) , and the sperm carries the other ( 23 ) . So when fertilisation takes place and the chromosomes combine ( giving you 2x 23 chromosomes ) and the cell
For you , it means this : Suppose you took out a 10k loan to go to college . It will have a monthly interest rate added of 3.68 % for every month you do n't pay it back . So , you do your 8 months of College for the first year , that 's an additional 29.44 % interest you have to pay on your 10k loan , or you now owe a total of $ 12,944 . If the interest rate had remained at 6.8 % , you would have instead incurred an interest rate of 54.6 % interest , or you would have owed a total of $ 15,460 instead . Aka you 're not going to pay them even more than you already have to .
It 's called an air embolism . > A large bubble of air in the heart ( as can follow certain traumas in which air freely gains access to large veins ) will present with a constant " machinery " murmur . It is important to promptly place the patient in Trendelenburg position ( head down)[dubious – discuss ] and on their left side ( left lateral decubitus position ) . The Trendelendberg position keeps a left - ventricular air bubble away from the coronary artery ostia ( which are near the aortic valve ) so that air bubbles do not enter and occlude the coronary arteries ( which would cause a heart attack ) . URL_0 Basically the bubble travels to the heart and blocks the artery , which prevents blood from getting to where it 's supposed to go , so your heart stops and you die .
Because it was never a focus . Manned space missions are largely a vanity , a way for countries to show how technically advanced they are . Astronauts are a whiny lot , always wanted to come back to earth , and that makes manned missions much , much more expensive . The ESA saw that the US and Russia had the manned thing pretty well covered , and decided to focus on scientifically valuable , but much less expensive unmanned missions . Also bear in mind that as of right now , the US does n't have a manned space program , either .
It was a crazy fad that happened with a great marketing strategy . People became infatuated with them and started collecting them , creating a major demand for them when there just was n't enough to go around . This created a scarcity that created a value for them . People who were able to find them and buy them would resell them and make a decent profit and other people wanted to do the same .
The Earth 's water surface area is approximately 361,132,000 km2 , which is 3.89 × 10 ^ 15 square feet . That means the top one foot of global sea level contains approximately 3.89 x 10 ^ 15 cubic feet of water . So , approximately that many cubic feet worth of animals would have to be removed to lower the sea level by one foot . I 'm not sure it 's possible to estimate the total volume of all living creatures in the oceans , but it 's safe to say it 's nowhere near 3.89 x 10 ^ 15 cubic feet . To put it in context , the volume of an average human is about 2 cubic feet . Which means it would take about 1.95 x 10 ^ 15 humans to displace sea level by one foot . That 's about 285,000 times the Earth 's current total human population .
It 's not that statistics are easily manipulated . It 's more that statistics without the proper context can be misleading ( intentionally or unintentionally ) . Supposedly , the number of kids diagnosed with autism increased by 300+% in the 1990 's . A series of new vaccines were introduced in the 1990 's that contain small amounts of mercury . Both statements are true , but are unrelated . The statistic that autism cases increased by 300+% is completely unrelated to the introduction of new vaccines , but because some people tried to make the association and reported the 2 statements in the same article , the statistic became very misleading . Btw , numerous studies have shown that vaccines are safe and are not contributing to the increase in the number of cases of autism . It 's not to say that there was n't an increase in the number of cases . It 's only to say that vaccines were not the cause .
Processing power is part of it - computers now are able to optimize more data to minimize size in a given amount of time than they were 5 years ago . What this means is that an HD movie encoded to high - quality settings may have been possible in 2002 , but it would have taken months or years of raw encoding time . Today it could be done in hours , which is actually worth attempting . Another part ( at least with lossy algorithms ) is improvements in psychological factors - since we know we 'll need to drop _ some _ of the image data , we 're better at tricking the brain into not noticing that missing data ( for instance , by spreading the missing bits out over multiple frames in parts of the image that are relatively static ) .
Today you go to the store and purchase a bag of chips . Next week the government passes an ex post facto law banning all the potato chips and making it a criminal offense to have purchased them in the past . So , then the clerk provides a receipt to police identifying you as a purchaser of chips . Now you go to jail you filthy animal .
The balance sheet for a bank is the list of assets and liabilities that the bank directly is responsible for. This would be things like loans the bank issues and accounts with the bank. Banks can make both "balance sheet" loans, meaning a loan that says on the balance sheet - one the bank gains the profits from but holds the risks for also. They can also make "off balance sheet" loans, meaning they securitize the loan (sell it off, such as the mortgage backed securities). Most major banks, i.e. Chase, Citibank, etc., could be called "balance sheet" banks because at least some portion of their lending comes from their balance sheet. Not 100% by any means, they participate in the security swaps extensively just like everyone does, but they do at least some normal, boring lending just as you would explain a bank to a five year old. Bank takes in deposits from account holders, loans that money out to people who want to buy homes or start businesses. However, some (particularly smaller) firms don't work this way - they don't take responsibility for the money or the loans. They instead "manage assets" or some similar term. I think of it like the difference between Wal-Mart and a consignment store. Wal-Mart buys things from its distributors, and sells them, taking the risk (of the item not selling) and the reward (of the profit from selling) to itself. On the other hand, a consignment store takes on neither: it takes
In the simplest form it is done by code received from the website that is designed to execute on your computer , typically flash and java . If there is an exploit in the flash or java on your computer this code can take advantage of if and infect your computer . There are other means of infection as well such as a browser vulnerability or even the section of the OS that handles how images are rendered .
LLC is, as far as I know, just a US thing, so I'm assuming that you are in the USA. Update for clarification: other countries do have similar concepts, but I'm not aware of any country that uses the term LLC, nor any other country that uses the single-member LLC that is disregarded for income tax purposes that I'm referring to here (and that I assume the recruiter also was talking about). Further, LLCs vary by state. I only have experience with California, so some things may not apply the same way elsewhere. Also, if you are located in one state but the client is elsewhere, things can get more complex. First, let's get one thing out of the way: do you want to be a contractor, or an employee? Both have advantage, and especially in the higher-income areas, contractor can be more beneficial for you. Make sure that if you are a contractor, your rate must be considerably higher than as employee, to make up for the benefits you give up, as well as the FICA taxes and your expense of maintaining an LLC (in California, it costs at least $800/year, plus legal advice, accounting, and various other fees etc.). On the other hand, oftentimes, the benefits as an employee aren't actually worth all that much when you are in high income brackets. Do pay attention to health insurance - that may be a valuable benefit, or it may have such high deductibles that you would be better off
Simply because you do not know any of them does n't mean they do n't exist . I 'm sure some people pay for porn * despite * being able to watch it for free , simply to support a good porn company or a company that deals with a niche subject . After all , if all the porn companies closed up , who would keep making porn ?
The thing is , lift is created partly by the shape of the wing , and partly by the angle of attack . [ Picture ] ( URL_0 ) If you turn the plane upside down , you will have to have a bigger angle of attack because the shape of the wing will " work against you " . The plane will fly successfully if the lift created by AoA is greater than lift created by the shape plus the weight of the airplane .
Anonymous has no central authority , so one could argue that there can be no " general opinion " of anonymous because the label simultaneously applies to anyone and no - one . Now , this is just my personal opinion here , but I think after several highly - active anon " leaders " were caught , the group lost the air of invincibility that had developed around it . # People were drawn to anonymous because it was mysterious and nobody could stop them . They were the ultimate " chaotic - good " force that could n't be predicted . Once those leaders were arrested , a face was applied to the name and people realized the members were fallible humans just like everyone else .
First and foremost : Understand how they change interest . Most credit cards have a grace period after each purchase to pay it off without incurring interest charges . It 's usually in the neighborhood of 25 days . This is from the date of * purchase * not your billing day . If you buy something on September 1st , get a bill on September 20th , and pay it on the 26th , you 're going to get charged based on your APR is on the purchase ( and for the entire time , just just since the end of the grace period ) . APR is a bit complicated , but it basically determines how much you 'll pay in interest on a purchase once the grace period expires . It 's not a straight - up charge , but instead they determine a daily rate based on your annual rate and charge interest per day . The easiest way to visualize it and get an idea is to play around with a few numbers and see how it ends up . There 's a calculator [ here ] ( URL_0 ) ( Put 0 for extra cost ) . If you 're new to credit , you 'll probably get an APR in the 15 % range . 9 % is incredibly good for new credit folks and with perfect credit and payment history you can usually snag APRs as low as 3 % or so
As others have stated , there are various reasons for why the " takes money to make money " adage largely holds true . That 's only part of the story though , and does n't directly address the growing gap we 've been seeing over the past 30 years or so . If we look back 500 years ago we would still see some pretty extreme cases of financial inequality . Investments are n't really a new concept , and even a long time ago it was much easier to increase existing wealth than to go from nothing to something . If it was truly as simple as money = more money then we would 've expected the gap to rise exponentially over that time , leaving us with a handful of trillionaires and a population of peasants . However , the relative wealth gap stayed roughly the same over that period and in fact got closer at many points . The wealth gap really is increasing now though , it 's not just perception . In the US over the past 30 years income for the top 1 % has grown close to 200 % while the median income has only grown ~15 % . By many standards the average household is n't any better off than they were 20 years ago despite GDP having drastically increased . So what gives ? What has changed that make the past 30 years so much different than the rest of
Taiwan 's modern history started when KMT , the nationalist party of China and back then the legitimate government of China fled to Taiwan after losing the Chinese civil war vs the communist rebels . Then a few decades after that , the world was ruled by cold war relations but nonetheless with the support of soviet bloc , communist China was able to gain world wide recognition and is now the legitimate government of Chinese mainland . However , KMT and Taiwan survived till this day because USA guarantees that any military intervention by China will be met by the might of US armed forces . The relationship is complicated now because Taiwan is effectively their own country however this is a particular interesting problem for Chinese government because one of the mandates of communist rule in China is the one united strong China policy and until Taiwan is returned to China , it stood as an example that an alternative can exist outside of their rule in the Sino world . As a born and bred PRC Chinese guy , I think Taiwan should have their say on the world stage and be their own country , if it walks like a duck then ... However the reality is that the Chinese government has invested too much political capital and PR into maintaining the status quo and keeping the illusion of one China policy , it would be suicidal for any one in the ruling elite to backtrack
Most of the fun side effects of plants are actually designed to be deterrents to those who would eat the plants . Capsaicin , for example , is spicy to prevent mammals from eating hot chilis , and enough can kill insects , but birds ( which eat the seeds and poop them out ) do n't taste it and are completely unaffected . Same with psychoactive plants . What sends mammals on a trip can kill bugs and other animals the plant wants to keep from eating it .
As stated above it is the air pockets that actually retain warmth . This is the value of something like a down jacket . The feathers are light and fluffy and create a large area of very small air pockets . As you learn to account for this in warm dressing you may be surprised by the types of clothes that actually provide warmth for you . I 've been told that sailors in the north Atlantic used to wear shirts with small knots in the fabric to create the loft needed to insulate themselves from the freezing temperatures .
Hi.I understand your concern.EEG and MRI can help for confirmative diagnosis.Stress can worsen seizure and can be treated with anti convulsant with anxiolytic.Keppra can help to control seizure. Anxiolytic like lorazepam can help in both convulsion and stress.Thiamine is vitamin and it can help to supplement.It can not help in stress and convulsion and can be given with keppra.No need to worry.Take advise from your treating doctor.I hope I have answered your question.Thank you.
I do n't believe car insurance companies promise anything in advertisements . For example , GEICO says " You could save 15 % or more " . So , you could potentially save 15 % or more . Or you could not . You could also save exactly 15 % , or you could save more than that . So basically , they are saving your savings could be between 0 % and 100 % . When you actually get quotes from each , you will find that some of them will charge more and some of them charge less . They do n't guarantee that their rates will be cheaper than others .
There are a number of ways it can be handled . Most often these days , multiplayer games have a " server - client " architecture . To put it very simply , the server handles the game logic , and the client renders graphics , plays sounds , sends input commands and tells the server where it thinks you should be . ( Which the server may disagree with , hence glitches where you get hit even though it looked like you did n't ) . Part of the server logic is a thing called an " event handler . " Which is * kinda * like a bunch of if statements , in that it is conditional , but it is more dynamic . For a very simple example , let 's say a new player joins . An event , maybe called player_join , is triggered . The server sends some info to all the clients , which each run their own code to say " Dr. Mux joined the game . " It gets a lot more complicated than that , and I 'd go much more in depth if I were n't on my phone at work .
" The Halting Problem " is this : If someone gives you a computer program , and asks you whether it will run forever or eventually figure out what it wants to know and stop ... how do YOU tell which it will do ? You ca n't just run the program . If it 's one of the kind of programs that stop , okay , it 'll stop and now you know it stops . But if it 's one of those " runs forever " programs , then it will ( duh ) run forever ... and you will never know if it stops or not . Alan Turing proved mathematically that there is no general solution to this problem . It is what mathematicians call " undecidable " , in the general case . Some specific programs can be analyzed and we know that those specific programs will stop ... but we ca n't know for every possible program . This idea was revolutionary at the time - many people thought that if you had a finite computer program then it should always be possible , somehow , to analyze it and figure out if it eventually stops or not . Turing proved that this is not the case . Also , since computer programs are equivalent to certain kind of mathematical proofs , the proof of the Halting Problem showed that there are certain kinds of mathematical proofs that we will never be able to
" wo- " comes from the Old English " wifmon " and means " wife . " ( " wifmon " means wife - man ) . Female comes from the Latin " Femina , " while male comes from the Latin " Mas . " They evolved to be more similar in sound since they represent opposite concepts .
between AD 1000 ( when al - Biruni used seconds ) and 1960 the second was defined as 1/86,400 of a mean solar day ( that definition still applies in some astronomical and legal contexts ) Between 1960 and 1967 , it was defined in terms of the period of the Earth 's orbit around the Sun in 1900 , but it is now defined more precisely in atomic terms . Seconds may be measured using mechanical , electric or atomic clocks . Astronomical observations of the 19th and 20th centuries revealed that the mean solar day is slowly but measurably lengthening and the length of a tropical year is not entirely predictable either ; thus the sun – earth motion is no longer considered a suitable basis for definition . With the advent of atomic clocks , it became feasible to define the second based on fundamental properties of nature . Since 1967 , the second has been defined to be : the duration of 9,192,631,770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium 133 atom . In 1997 , the CIPM affirmed that the preceding definition " refers to a caesium atom at rest at a temperature of 0 K.
It could be people involved with the creation and distribution of the album . If they are working on the songs or creation of the discs , they obtain copies of the music . I imagine this makes up most of the people that leak songs before a full release . Some radio stations or certain individuals may receive advanced copies due to things like album release parties where participants usually receive a copy that has a locked disc that may only play on a CD player and not a computer . They can also use it to track files released early to see which individual may have done so . Besides torrent sites , it could be uploaded to Youtube , but it would be taken down quickly at the record label 's request . I 'm sure it 's also uploaded to other places to be stored or played .
It 's a misconception that most people would live to around 30 . While it 's true something around there was the average age of death this is because people were * * so * * much more likely to die as a child . If you made it to 15 or so you had a good chance of seeing your 60's/70 's . No idea if people would look older or younger .
Gradually . Imagine an early fish species , who swim towards the shore to escape predators , and occasionally beaches itself . Members of that species who can survive long enough on land to flop back into the water are going to be better able to survive , and pass those genes onto their offspring . At first , it will be very small changes , gills that work a little better on land , eyes that see a little better out of the water , skin that dries out a little slower . But generation after generation , as novel gene combinations occur and new mutations arise , these changes will become more profound . Longer , stiffer fins become limbs , gill become full functioning lung , sensory organs adapt to work out of water , etc . It might take millions of generations over millions of years , but eventually those small changes add up to big adaptations .
Helicopters use what is known as collective pitch , long story short this means that the rotor blades can have both negative and positive pitch and can thus blow wind upwards ( negative ) or downwards ( positive ) . When a helicopter enters a autorotation the rotor is disconnected from the power source ( to allow the rotors to freely rotate ) and the pilot adds negative pitch to the rotor blades , this causes the blades to speed up as the helicopter moves through the air towards the ground ( this energy will be used later ) . At a certain distance above the ground the pilot adds positive pitch to the rotor blades , the causing them to blow wind downwards and thus slowing the descent of the helicopter and enabling it to land safely
One person goes to the boss and demands a raise or the quit , and the boss will tell them not to let the door hit them on ass on the way out . A hundred people do that , and the boss has to listen or risk losing money . That 's basically how a union works , they negotiated with managed , with the implicit threat they will strike if they do n't get what they want . Unions also collect dues and use those dues to in theory help the members do things they could n't do on their own . They can hire lawyers to make sure labor laws are followed and contracts with the workers are being followed , and they can make political contributions to try to get pro - union politicians elected and hire lobbyists to try to get pro - union laws passed .
It 's when a person has a mismatch between the gender of their personality ( the gender that they identify themselves with ) and their physical gender . It is not defined by their gender role ( ie , a stay - at - home dad is not a transgender just by virtue of his daily activities ) , but by their emotional identity . I 'd be interested to find out if there 's such a thing as a transgendered heterosexual ( ? ) . Like , is there such a thing as a transgender man that identifies himself as a woman but is still attracted to women ? Like a lesbian trapped in a man 's body ?
One of the points that 's missing from the other answers is that the monthly payments of principal and interest are contrived to be the same over the entire course of the loan . The amortization formula comes up wit a number that means " If you pay exactly $ X for each and every payment over the N years of the loan , at this interest rate , it will all come out even . " The last payment is often off by a few dollars , but close enough . Once the amortization formula comes up with that number , the rest is straightforward . Take your current outstanding principal balance , figure out one month 's worth of interest , and that 's the amount of the monthly payment going to interest . The remaining part of the $ X is used to reduce the principal balance . Next month , they do the same calculation , but since the principal balance has gone down , the one month 's worth of interest is also smaller , but the $ X payment amount remains the same . Adding to the confusion is escrow , usually for taxes and insurance . This changes each year , which means your total monthly payment can change each year . But the part of the payment that goes to principal plus interest is always the same . The could , if they wanted and you wanted , change things so that
Are you on Twitter? If so, the first thing I'd do is tweet this question to @Orbitz and/or @AmericanAir (AA). I'll edit it to be a bit nicer english-wise. Tweeting (or Facebooking or Instgramming or ...) is one of the most effective ways to get customer service in 'edge' cases. Explain your case in a nice, tight narrative that has the pertinent facts, why you should get an exception. Social media tends to get results that you can't get just talking on the phone; in part because you're effectively talking with a higher-up person, and because you can make your case a bit more clearly. You can actually tweet this StackExchange question directly, or word it yourself in a tweet/FB post/etc. On Twitter i'd link to here or somewhere else (too short), with something like "@Orbitz @AmericanAir, you changed our trip and now it doesn't work with our special needs child. Any way you can help us out? [link to this q or a blog post somewhere]". As far as a merchant dispute; it would realistically depend on the agreement you signed with Orbitz when you bought the tickets. Likely it includes some flexibility for them to change your plans if the airline cancels the flight. If it does, and they followed all of their policies correctly, then technically you shouldn't dispute the charge. It is possible that Chase might have some recourse on your behalf, though I don't think this qualifies for Trip Cancellation Insurance (Which you have through
The reason they are not allowed is because it is an FAA regulation that all devices allowed to operate during takeoff and landing be certified as safe . This does n't mean a " type " of device like cellphones in general ; it means specific devices ( i.e. specific models ) . While individual airlines may certify specific devices if they can prove they are safe , no one has the time or resources to test and certify every make and model of PED out there . I work for a major airline and have NEVER ( ever ) heard of the " so passengers are paying attention " rule . If clarity and attention were required during takeoff and landing they would n't let people sleep nor would they serve drinks while loading passengers . How more distracting is reading a Kindle than the SkyMall magazine ? If there 's trouble you are putting both down .
Primaries are run by the parties , not by any formal government process . They are used to determine the best candidates to elect to run for their party in the general election . There 's no legal requirement to do it this way and many people run in the general election who never went through a primary . It 's worth noting that the American system for electing a president is not a direct vote either . The system is a representative system when a smaller body of people vote as representative of the broader populace . That 's the electoral college . You directly vote for congress , indirectly vote for the president , and representatively appoint Supreme Court justices via the President . It 's all intentionally different .
This is how I answered it previously : Imagine you want to build a rocket ship that will escape the pull of Earth 's gravity . But , instead of a regular rocket ship that burns fuel the whole way up you build one that has a single big explosion under it right at the beginning and then no more thrust . This rocket ship needs to get up to a certain speed or it will never escape , it will eventually just fall back to the ground . On Earth the speed it needs to start with is 25,000 miles per hour . Any slower than this and it will fail to escape the pull of Earth 's gravity . On a larger planet the number goes up . If you built the same rocket on Jupiter it would need to be going 133,000 mph . If the planet has enough mass eventually the speed becomes faster than light . Since nothing in the universe can go faster than light , nothing can escape that , including light .
In the US at least , they do n't , Congress tells them the price . Usually the post office says they need more money and estimates what a stamp needs to be to balance their budget , they send it to Congress and Congress tells them the new price of a stamp , it may or may not be in line with the price they requested .
lawsuits . Example cases depend on the topic but .. Negligence : Harm - causing failure to exercise the required level of care . Case : * * Donoghue v Stevenson * * Requirements : Defendant owed them a duty of care ; Defendant was in breach of that duty ; The breach of duty caused the damage ; The damage was not too remote Source : Going into 3rd year law in sept .
Obama did n't order it to be shut down . He promised that he would while he was campaigning , but he never followed through . The reason that he never followed through is that ~~Obama is Hitler~~ it 's really hard to actually figure out what to do with the people who are incarcerated there . You ca n't just let them all go , and no one is willing to take them , so for now they 're stuck in limbo . Until we can figure out where to put them , they 're stuck .
Under classical physics there are 2 basic types of radiation : * Particle radiation * Wave radiation Particle radiation is typically created in nuclear decay ( when atoms break down ) . They sometimes propel protons , neutrons , electrons or whole new atoms away from the site of break down . Also , remember your old big TV ? These also had something in the back shooting electrons against the screen , making it glow . Wave radiation is usually electro - magnetic wave radiation which can be anything from radio waves , microwaves , cellphone signals , wifi signals , light , uv - light , x - ray and something we call gamma rays . They are all basically the same about how they are created : you accelerate or decelerate electrons . Anything from uv - light , x - ray and gamma rays can really hurt you , stay away unless necessary ( x - ray pictures at the doc are okay if you do n't take to many of them . However , in modern physics , we discovered , those 2 types are basically the same in how they behave ( not how they are created ) . As to what it does ... well it almost always does heat up matter it passes through . But it can do more ( like x - rays can damage your cells ) . Also you can transmit signals with electromagnetic radiation very easily over
For the most part , they do n't . Take your wristwatch , for instance , or the clock in your car . To say those clocks are " synchronized " with another clock implies that they 're close enough to each other so you do n't notice the difference between them — less than a minute , by far , and possibly less than a second depending on exactly what kind of clock we 're talking about . But nobody in the world needs their wristwatch and the clock in their car to be within a second of each other . If they 're within * ten minutes * of each other , that 's absolutely fine … and frankly , as long as they 're within a half hour , it 's probably not * that * big a deal . So when the battery in your watch dies and you have to reset it , what do you do ? You just look at another clock . You 'll see that that clock — your reference clock — says it 's 10:03:38 … and you 'll set your watch to five after ten . Ish . Give or take . Because that 's * close enough . * Maybe you 'll come back in a week and double - check that your wristwatch is still within a few minutes of your reference clock , but other than that , you wo n't think of it again until
A Superconductor is a material that allows electrons to flow through with negligible resistance , and we 're not certain that there * is * resistance at all in a few cases . As a result , very little power is lost to the electromagnetic equivalent of friction . Most Superconductive Materials only * function * as Superconductors at near Absolute - Zero temperatures . However , there are several Superconductors that work at * achievable * temperatures . It 's still * very * expensive to cool any known material to the point where they become superconducting , but it 's affordable enough to see use in laboratory environments . A Room Temperature Superconductor would be a world - reshaping discovery , even if it were only used for power lines . Electricity could be generated * anywhere * and transmitted to * anywhere * without a significant loss of energy to Resistance as heat . Power generated by a Solar Plant in Arizona could be sent to New York City , with less loss of energy to resistance . than New York 's current power plants experience . However , we 've never * found * a Room Temperature Superconductor . It 's a Holy Grail of Science .
I have a theory , so take it for what it 's worth . If these are pretty old memories , you are probably recreating them from small cues of the memory , and possibly from retellings of the memory . Since your mind is recreating and piecing it together , it 's more natural for you personally to see it like a movie , in the third person . Eh ?
Cons : Higher taxes as we have to pay more for goods from the EU . Increased food costs as farmers lose their subsidies . Increased costs due to the UK having to form it 's own versions of EU laws . Reduced say in EU politics Increased trade deficit as the EU will not pay the EU import tax on our goods and choose goods from within the EU Currently the value in goods we export to the EU is £ 13bn this will fall , the amount we export outside the EU is also around £ 13bn this will not rise . The loss of the only proportional vote the UK has creating a decrease in democracy ( this will be a massive issue if Scotland leave the UK as we 'll be in a conservative dictatorship even though they 'll only have 20 % or so of the total UK vote . ) we lose the £ 750pp that being in the EU provides us with Pros : controls over the 6.8 % of our laws that are EU laws . We gain back the £ 208pp it costs to be a member of the EU Less migrants entering the rest of the EU reducing total inter - EU migration as the main culprit for inter - EU migration exits the EU . That 's all I can think of off the top of my head , I give thanks to Leeds council and the ONS for
I ve designed capacitive touch systems and have a basic idea of how they work . The thickness is a big factor . Capacitive touch works by building an electro magnetic field like what is used to store a charge in a capacitor . It detects touch based on something disrupting that field . The actual method of that is pretty much voodoo to me . The field only protrudes from the screen a tiny amount . Some phones like the S4 note actually use a stronger field so it can sense gestures above the screen . But the reason screen protectors do n't block it is because they are thin and some materials are less obstructive to the field . The data sheet for the components I used in my design had a table of what materials work best for the cover panel .
This security looks like it will require patience for it to pay off. The 200 day moving average looks as if it will soon cross over the 20 day moving average. When that happens the security can be said to be in a bull run. http://stockcharts.com/h-sc/ui?s=UWTI&p=D&yr=1&mn=6&dy=0&id=p10888728027 However, this is just speculation... trying to make money via 'buy low, sell high' as I have stated previously, you have about a 25% chance of buying at the low and selling at the high. Better to buy into a fund that pays dividends and reinvest those dividends. Such as: http://www.dividend.com/dividend-stocks/uncategorized/other/pgf-invesco-powershares-financial-preferred-portfolio/ http://stockcharts.com/h-sc/ui?s=PGF&p=D&yr=1&mn=6&dy=0&id=p59773821284
It is n't . The word itself is n't overly offensive like every other curse word . It 's the aggressive delivery that offends people . I could say " fuck you , fuck off and every other kind of fuck " to my friends and family or even a crowd and they would laugh it off . I could say " Go away " in the tone that many people use " fuck you " and it would be deemed more offensive than just uttering the word fuck you . People just associated it as a bad word because our parent say that it 's a no no .
Hello, Thankyou for your contact to health care magic. If I am your treating doctor I would like to tell that bug bite causes allergic reaction you can discuss this chlorpheniramine maleate, prednislone, antibiotic powder neosporin with your treating doctor. Also do not forget to think about local hygiene of wound. If you want to ask me any thing else you can ask me. We wish you a best health at health care magic. Dr. Arun Tank: Infectious Disease Specialist.
It was originally defined as a litre ( one cubic decimeter ) just over freezing temperature . However , water varies in density depending on what is dissolved in it . While we might NOW be able to create superpure water at all the required to keep a kilogram constant , in 1779 , not so much . So in 1779 , it was decided that a prototype kilogram would be better , in 1889 , the prototype kilogram was replaced with a new one , the one we still use today . The prototype kilogram slightly changes in weight over time , taking the kilogram with it . While the following is not part of the answer , it might still be interesting : Recently , scientists have been working on trying to redefine the kilogram via a physical constant ( These are things such as the speed of light , they do not change at all ) . To do this they have made a shiny ball of silicon weighing one kilogram , and will count the amount of atoms in it . Source and more information : URL_0
Both of my primary home purchases were either at, or close to asking price. My first house was during the local seller's market in 2001-2002. There were waiting lines for open houses. In hindsight we bought more home than we needed at the time but that had nothing to do with offering asking price. It was the market for the type of property (location and features) at that time. My second house was a little after the peak in 2008. The value had come down quite a bit and the property was priced on the low side versus the comps. To this day my second house still appraises higher than what we paid for it even though it was at asking price. As a third example, my brother-in-law got into a bidding war on his first home purchase and ended up buying it for above asking price. This was normal for the houses in the area he was looking at. With real estate, like other people have said, it really is important to either know the area you are looking at or to get an agent you trust and have them explain their reasons for their offer strategy through the comps. Yes agents need to make money but the good ones have been in the business a while and also live off of repeat business when you sell your house or refer friends and family to them. Agents do a lot less work when it comes to selling by the
Amazon consists of sellers who buy products at wholesale prices . Most of these sellers do n't have physical stores so they save on business costs ( rent , paying many workers etc ) associated with running a store so they can afford to sell lower than physical stores . Even if they do have a store its always cheaper to buy online .
It 's called multilineal evolution in Anthropology . Basically each culture evolves differently based on the problems that face them and their access to energy . It 's really impossible to give a complete answer when adaptation is so nuanced , especially given how science / technology becomes a chain of events predicated on a previous discovery . Say , for example , your society does n't invent writing in 3500 BC like this other culture over here did-- maybe it does n't come around for you until 1000 BC . In the meantime that other culture has 2000 years to invent mathematics , rudimentary engineering , and most importantly the ability to pass down knowledge / speed up the process of acquiring new technology . So then by about the time you 've figured how to write shit down that other culture is figuring out this swell new thing in the ground called iron . And so on and so forth . It just kind of snowballs in favor of the culture that got there first . Combine that with access or not to food-- which ultimately allows you to create larger and more specialized societies as your people are n't spending the majority of their waking hours fending off starvation . If you ended up in something like the Fertile Crescent you eventually got early civilization as we know it . If you ended up in a malaria infested jungle , you did n't have time to invent
I believe it 's predetermined at birth . I am right handed and my mother is left handed . She used to tell me that she 'd watch which hand I used to pick up things as a baby to see if I 'd be left or right handed and already from a very , very early age my right hand was dominant . This [ article ] ( URL_0 ) also suggests that genetics are the cause of handedness . So I suppose you are born with it . This is not to say that you ca n't " learn " to use your other hand . A friend 's mother broke her right hand / arm and had a cast for the longest time . She had to learn to use her left hand for writing . To this day she can still use her left hand almost as well as her right .
As you no doubt noticed , there was a recent run on .22 ammo ( and other calibers — plain ol' 9 mm was hard to come by ) in the wake of Sandy Hook and all the proposed gun control legislation . People wanted to buy it up while they could , which in turn drove the price up . .22 was hit pretty hard , since it 's the single - most ( or one of the most ) popular calibers in both rifles and handguns ( on the consumer market anyway ) . So that massive spike in demand caused a spike in the price . The supplies are coming back to normal , though , as are the prices . We should see " normal " prices within a year ( unless there 's another scare ) . I say this based on how a similar scare shook out about 4 years back .
It depends on how the drug can be absorbed and if it will cause inflammation . Some drugs can be given either intramuscular ( IM ) or intravenous ( IV ) , while some can only be IV because they would cause inflammation and severe pain if injected IM . There is also the option of subcutaneous injection , where a short needle is used to inject just under the skin . Insulin is injected that way .
A nuclear reaction happens when fissile ( splittable ) material is hit by a neutron . The material splits into smaller bits , giving off energy and more neutrons . If these neutrons hit other bits of fissile material , then the reaction will continue to happen . A nuclear bomb is that reaction , happening very quickly in a very small space . The fissile material is compressed using shaped explosives , which explode all around it and force it into a very small space . This way , the neutrons will very quickly find more fissile material to react with and continue the reaction . Once this happens many times , the energy has to go somewhere . It ends up heating the air to such a high temperature that the air has to expand very quickly . This creates a blast wave or shockwave , which is like a moving wall of air . Whatever gets in the way of this wave is broken up or destroyed due to the sheer ( and maybe shear ) force . The smaller bits of material that split off from the fissile material are spread around by the explosion and by wind currents and emit radiation . This is called fallout .
* * How accents work :* * Accents come from the vowel . When you speak , the vowel can be shaped in a variety of ways . The ' a ' in ' hay ' is not the same as the ' a ' in ' cat . ' Same letter , different sound . The ' a ' in ' hay ' looks more like ' aaaeee ' because of two different vowel sounds combining . This is called a * * diphthong * * ( pronounced dip - thong , stupid ' h ' messing stuff up)--when two or more vowel sounds are smushed together to represent one sound . Different accents are based on how a vowel is spoken and the amount of diphthong it has . * * How vowels work for singing :* * Singing a vowel is considerably more work than speaking one . Singing the ' a ' in ' hay ' for a minute straight is actually quite straining on the throat . This is bad because people who sing for a living -- from 5 to 10 hours a day -- can get hurt . Hence , singing focuses on the easiest way to get a sound out of the human body without hurting it . The vowels that are used to sing with are called * * pure vowels * * . These vowels are * completely stripped of a diphthong * to allow the throat and tongue to
The Minuteman ( the USA 's current ICBM of choice ) cost $ 7 M each in 1970 - that 's about $ 43 M in today 's dollars . A Tomahawk costs around $ 1.5 M today . That completely ignores the massive infrastructure associated with maintaining ICBMs . ... and a cruise missile is n't going to scare the Russians into thinking you 're starting a nuclear war .
Freedom Summer (also known as the Mississippi Summer Project) was a campaign in the United States launched in June 1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as possible in Mississippi , which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, and community centers in small towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
All Occam 's Razor says is that if you have a problem or question , and a series of possible solutions or answers , then the option which is the most simple is usually the correct one . For example . I have a small toddler and a 13 year old boy . I leave cookies out on the counter ( good ones ) . I leave the room for a few hours and come back to find that the cookies are gone . What happened to them ? Well , the theories I have are : * The toddler moved a chair over to the counter , climbed up on it , got the cookies , ate all of them , and then put the chair back . * The 13 year old took the cookies Both of these theories are valid , but Occam 's Razor tells us that it is * more likely * that the 13 year old took the cookies , because it involves less variables and less complexity than the alternative .
Because it 's what happens when fuel " burns " . Hydrogen is good by itself , Oxygen is good by itself , but when they join together they lose their ability to interact with other things and provide useful energy . Water is basically the equivalent of ash . it is n't fuel , it 's the result of using fuel . You can split up water back into hydrogen and oxygen , but that requires more energy to put in than it gives off ( nothing is for free ) .
Chris, this is an arbitrage question with a twist: you cannot treat the location you want to live objectively. For example, why not SoCal instead of Texas? Yes, SoCal's expensive but what if you account for the weather? This question is very interesting for me personally: something I am going to focus on myself, soon, as well. To the question at hand: it's very hard to get a close estimate of the price from a single source, say, a website. The cost of a house is always negotiable and there's no sticker price, and there begins your problems. However, there are some publicly available information which websites aggregate, see: http://www.city-data.com/ Also, some heuristics might help: Rent is at-least as expensive as the monthly mortgage, (property) taxes, HOA fees, etc. Smart people have told me this, and this also makes sense to me as the landlord is in this business to make some money after all. However, there are also other hidden costs of home ownership that I am not aware of in details (and which I craftily sidestepped in my "etc" above) that could put a rental to be "cheaper". One example that comes to mind is you as a tenant get to complain if the washer-dryer misbehaves and demand the landlord get you a new one (see how you wouldn't make a sound were you to own it however) Such a website to gauge rentals: http://www.rentometer.com/ Houses cost more where the median income is more. Again, you cannot be
Peter A. Wegner (August 20, 1932 – July 27, 2017) was a computer scientist who made significant contributions to both the theory of object-oriented programming during the 1980s and to the relevance of the Church–Turing thesis for empirical aspects of computer science during the 1990s and present. In 2016, Wegner wrote a brief autobiography for Conduit, the annual Brown University Computer Science department magazine.
It 's kind of an anecdotal question ... no one answer would describe the entire 20 - 30 year old range . There are plenty of well off people in that age range . But as a general rule , it 's the time in which people are getting settled into routines , settled into jobs ( if they work ) . People also learn the routine of what their parents may or may not have taught them about saving , personal finances , debt management , etc . etc . Coupled with all that ... the price of everything is going up , and people are taking on monumental amounts of $ 250,000 in student loan debt for a degree in German Polka History , in which the payment for the loans is crippling and the income a job in that field is n't sufficient to live on . So in essence , as a TL;DR : People have too much debt , or not enough knowledge in finance , debt management , and living within their means .
Short answer : They do n't . If they REALLY go after the person , they can go through the courts to garnish their wages , take their tax returns , etc . until the debt is covered , but it 's a long , drawn out process that might not even end up covering the cost of the legal fees to have it done .
Keeping a child in a grade that they have clearly surpassed is damaging too . Often the child becomes bored , loses attention , loses desire to go to school , and begins to suffer academically . The loss of social interaction and the immediate stigma that comes with skipping a grade has to be balanced with those factors .
Linens usually are items made of cloth that are * not for a person to wear . * For example sheets , tablecloths , decorative fabrics , pillowcases , sometimes towels . Clothes usually are items made of cloth that are * specifically made for a person to wear . * For example shirts , trousers , dresses , underwear , coats .
These are all good answers . As for how mods are applied and used : if you 're a total newbie in this regard , here 's the shortish answer : For years , applying mods had to be done by copying modified files into the game 's directories , on your hard disk . Usually , some files would be overwritten with altered versions , to implement the mod . As long as you had instructions , it is n't difficult . Now , many Steam games use the unified " Steam Workshop " system , which lets you " subscribe " to mods , with a single click .
Gordon David Plotkin, FRS FRSE MAE (born 9 September 1946) is a theoretical computer scientist in the School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh. Plotkin is probably best known for his introduction of structural operational semantics (SOS) and his work on denotational semantics. In particular, his notes on A Structural Approach to Operational Semantics were very influential.[citation needed] He has contributed to many other areas of computer science.[10][11][12][13][14][15]
Well , we currently do n't have a space shuttle program . Wikipedia : URL_0 ISS crew and cargo resupply The ISS is planned to be funded until at least 2020.[37 ] There has been discussion to extend it to 2028 and possibly beyond that.[38 ] Until another US manned spacecraft is ready , crews will travel to and from the International Space Station exclusively aboard the Russian Soyuz spacecraft.[39 ] So we are dependent on rides to the ISS from the Russians . Additionally , because the Russians are the only ones who can really access the space station , it would be a trivial matter to keep out any unwanted visitors ( assuming someone is on board )
If your put your DSLR on a tripod and set the shutter speed to bulb mode ( that is , the shutter stays open as long as you are pressing the button ) then all the information that the camera can see will be processed into the final image . This is how light trails of cars , moving stars , photos of fireworks are captured . And yes , how long you make the shutter stay open depends on a number of factors , such as your other exposure settings ( ISO , aperture ) and also how much movement you want to capture in your photo . This all happens , by the way , because of shutter speed affecting motion blur in your photos . The faster the shutter ' blinks ' the less motion there will be in your photo (= the sharper it will be essentially ) , and the longer it stays open the higher chance there is that you 'll start introducing motion blur . When you see night sky photos of star trails , that 's essentially motion blur generated by the camera itself .
Aside from just preferring the taste , ordering a hamburger medium - rare when possible can be an attempt to force the restaurant to use somewhat better quality and/or fresher meat . Food service workers have told me a few times that if you order a well done piece of meat , you are sometimes getting the oldest meat they need to get rid of quickly .
While the group claims not to be criminally involved , many individual members have been convicted of many things like murder , robbery , extortion , running prostitution , etc . Their members have also been involved in conflict with other motorcycle gangs . They do good things , too . Many Hells Angels chapters do charity events and often collect toys for Toys for Tots .
Something to keep in mind : the vast majority of aftermarket alarms are made by the same company : Directed . Viper , Clifford , Python , Avitol , AutoMate are just a few of their brands . They are the Luxottica of aftermarket auto security . They share a lot of technology and designs between their brands so that ’s why that classic alarm sound seems so common . That setting is the default alarm sound for most of these systems . Most can be customized for one of those tones or just f’it play them all .
That comes from the so called POST or " power on self - test " . If your machine passes the POST or POSTs as most people call it , it will give of one long beep . However if your computer fails that POST it will give of some other series of long and short beeps . If you write down the sequence of beeps you can then look up what that means in terms of your mother board . This is designed to help debug problems where the computer will not boot up even enough to run any further tests .
Of course we know how they work . Take light elements , namely hydrogen , apply heat and pressure , and they fuse into helium . If you do it right , the process releases more energy than it took to do it . Fusion is n't that hard , you can build bench top devices that will do it , but they 're hugely inefficient . The hard part is the more energy out than in scenario . Hydrogen bombs make the big boom they do because more energy comes out than goes in , but of course , that 's wildly uncontrolled . Pressure and heat are related in this process , the more pressure you make , the less heat you need . Fusion in the core of the sun occurs at a lower temperature than what we need in our reactors because the sun 's core is under greater pressure than we can achieve in our reactors . So we compensate with higher temperatures . A fusion reactor designed for energy production would be surrounded in a water jacket that would be heated by energy escaping the reactor , and that would turn a turbine . There 's one other way we could capture energy , but I forget what that is , I do n't believe it requires boiling water .
Think of a 5GHz signal as a fully loaded car , and a 2.4GHz signal as a fully loaded semi . Which do you think is easier to stop ? A 5 GHz signal is tiny , and can not pierce through many solid materials like buildings or mountains . They can even be disrupted by rain . In contrast a 2.4GHz signal is bigger in comparison and will pierce through more substances . As for information sending , imagine the lower bandwidth signal is someone talking really slowly . You 'll get the information , but it will take a while . The higher the frequency the faster the talking . This is how I understand it . Source : Radio Technician Edit : The semi vs car analogy was n't about the data transfer rates but rather about how hard it is to stop something big . I realize in retrospect I should have used a different analogy . I 'm leaving it up because it still makes sense to me . Take it as you will .
If it 's a business trip , and the cost of the rental is picked up by your company , by all means get the additional insurance . Regarding personal use , I asked my sister who used to be an insurance underwriter . ( Most of the time , an insurance agent just looks at charts to see whether you qualify and what to charge you . If the charts do n't answer the question , the decision goes to an underwriter at the insurance company . ) She never gets the additional insurance .
Anyone can listen in on any frequency but even if you get that frequency it will be a garbled unintelligible mess . For simplicity sake lets use a really simple code . Every letter in this code is shifted 1 letter to the right on a qwerty keyboard . A by stander that picks up the signal : S ; ; upit nsdr str nr;pmh yp id/ Would have no idea what it means . However the person on the other side knows to shift every letter to the left and as such is able to read the message as : All your base are belong to us . Real encryption methods use complex gigantic numbers to scramble it and to figure out the code via brute force to unscramble it would take unimaginable amounts of time to do .
When / where questions are n't really suitable for ELI5 , it 's more for complex questions which usually require technical jargon to be explained in a way that leaves out the technical jargon . This question does n't need technical jargon to be explained ... Go to [ r / askhistory ] ( URL_2 ) or [ r / law ] ( URL_1 ) and ask there . I 'm sure someone will know . [ r / asklaw ] ( URL_0 ) might know too , but it 's quite a small subreddit , so you may either have to wait a while for a reply , or be satisfied with the replies you get elsewhere
Someone once pointed out that few people speculate about " where " we were before we were born . I do n't believe in an afterlife at all , in any form , but reincarnation seems more plausible to me . There is an fascinating documentary I saw once about the search for a new lama after one died in Tibet called [ Unmistaken Child ] ( URL_0 ) . My favorite theory of the afterlife is by Timothy Leary , the LSD activist , who said that the afterlife is like a dream . Time in a dream is distorted and it could feel as if it went on forever as we slipped away . Meaning , I guess , that if someone dies suddenly they wo n't experience this , and , otherwise , it would be of our own creation . I also love the quote , " I will not die , it 's the world that will end . " When death happens , we will no longer be there . By definition , all that we will experience is life .
First , let me explain the structure of state organs . Keep in mind , * * this is not the party structure * * . I 'll explain that after . There are 4 primary entities above most others : * National People 's Congress ( NPC ) * State Council * People 's Supreme Court * People 's Procurotorate The NPC is the primary legislative entity in the Chinese government . It is a congress of roughly 2,000 people elected and/or appointed by the military , trade groups , provinces , etc . The NPC has several distinct roles . 1 . Create and/or amend the constitution 2 . Decide what legislation is constitutional 3 . Create and/or amend legislation 4 . Appoint a president The president of China is a nominal position and only signs orders as directed by the NPC . The NPC has terms of 5 years , and each congress meets 5 times a year ( i think ) . Because of the limitations in meeting only a handful of times , there is a group of 9 NPC congresspeople who are chosen to be the NPC Standing Committee . The Standing Committee has the ability to perform most tasks the NPC does . The State Council is the administrative arm of the government of China . The State Council is headed by the Premier . The State Council does not pass laws , but it can order down regulations . Under the State
I went to Catholic school in Europe , I was taught sciences like normal . During my religion classes , we talked how many of the Bible 's events took place a very long time before they were written down , followed by us playing the telephone game to demonstrate how much a story can change . The gist of that was basically that the message is what matters , not the specific details of the story . Anyway I think it 's hard to draw generalizations . I live in Southern US now ( the Bible belt ) and public schools here offer more resistance against the theory of evolution than Catholic schools I attended in Europe did .
There is indeed a substantial co - occurrence of major depression and various anxiety disorders ; while it 's inevitably difficult to get accurate numbers , some estimates put it above 50 % , with GAD and panic disorder leading . In one of the largest antidepressant trials which did n't try to select for " pure " depression , anxious depression was the norm . Why is a much more difficult question , because the root causes of major depression and anxiety disorders are fundamentally not known . Every serious source in the psychiatric literature stresses what we do n't know ; while there 's always someone out there who will give you a clean and intuitive answer about magic brain chemicals , they really should n't . Besides , these are clinical diagnoses , which makes it hard to know whether what we 're seeing on the surface correlates with one or more underlying issues ; imagine trying to figure out the cause of pneumonia without microscopes or the concept of germs . That said , as I once heard it explained , " we now know a lot more about what we do n't know . " One simple explanation is that they share many risk factors , both genetic and environmental . Another line of research concerns the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis , which is tremendously important in the stress response , and implicated to some extent in most psychiatric problems
Bayesian inference is a method of statistical inference in which Bayes' theorem is used to update the probability for a hypothesis as more evidence or information becomes available. Bayesian inference is an important technique in statistics, and especially in mathematical statistics. Bayesian updating is particularly important in the dynamic analysis of a sequence of data. Bayesian inference has found application in a wide range of activities, including science, engineering, philosophy, medicine, sport, and law. In the philosophy of decision theory, Bayesian inference is closely related to subjective probability, often called "Bayesian probability".
University was much cheaper . The national average for tuition , room , and board for an undergraduate was $ 2275 ( for all institutions ) and only $ 1210 for those attending in state or public institutions ( this does n't include room and board ) . Those are 1976 numbers . Minimum wage was $ 2.10 at the time . So a student with a part time , minimum wage job could theoretically pay for the whole thing . A student living at home and attending an in state school could probably do it with just a summer job .
Trash is kind of a pain to burn as it 's super inconsistent as a fuel . Also , it can be quite polluting depending on what gets put in the trash ; e.g. : batteries in the trash = bad news for what ends up in your air / water when you burn them . Sweden goes to a lot of trouble to use their trash as fuel . From what I 've heard / read they do a pretty good job all things considered , but it does cost them quite a bit more to run their trash - energy program than a lot of other energy plans would . Edit : As a followup , you basically have to put people into the cycle in some sort of trash - sorting role to make it work well ; the automated sorting processes are n't good enough yet ... This is the main part that gets expensive .
Oxford University Press (OUP) is the university press of the University of Oxford. It is the largest university press in the world, and its printing history dates back to the 1480s. Having been officially granted the legal right to print books by decree in 1586, it is the second oldest university press after Cambridge University Press. It is a department of the University of Oxford and is governed by a group of 15 academics known as the Delegates of the Press, who are appointed by the vice-chancellor of the University of Oxford. The Delegates of the Press are led by the Secretary to the Delegates, who serves as OUP's chief executive and as its major representative on other university bodies. Oxford University Press has had a similar governance structure since the 17th century. The press is located on Walton Street, Oxford, opposite Somerville College, in the inner suburb of Jericho. For the last 500 years, OUP has primarily focused on the publication of pedagogical texts and continues this tradition today by publishing academic journals, dictionaries, English language resources, bibliographies, books on indology, music, classics, literature, history, as well as bibles and atlases. OUP has offices throughout the world, primarily in locations that were once part of the British Empire (mainly India and the United States).
Dividend prices are per share, so the amount that you get for a dividend is determined by the number of shares that you own and the amount of the dividend per share. That's all. People like to look at dividend yield because it lets them compare different investments; that's done by dividing the dividend by the value of the stock, however determined. That's the percentage that the question mentions. A dividend of $1 per share when the share price is $10 gives a 10% dividend yield. A dividend of $2 per share when the share price is $40 gives a 5% dividend yield. If you're choosing an investment, the dividend yield gives you more information than the amount of the dividend.
The OSI model is just like everything else in computing - it 's built up in layers , on top of foundations that had already been laid . Let 's start at the bottom , and work our way up to the top . At the very bottom is the physical layer - all it takes responsibility for is sending bits onto whatever medium carries the data . That could be wires , or fibre optic , or radio , or shouting in to a tin can . When it receives data it passes it up to the layer above it to make sense of it . It knows how to take control of the medium it 's using , how to send data , how to tell everyone it has stopped sending data , and how to deal with problems such as someone else already sending data . It has no idea what the data is , though . As a comparison , this is " talking on the phone " . The next layer up is the Data link layer - This layer adds some basic detection of whether th edata got to the other end intact , and how to break it down into manageable chunks that can be reassembled at the other end . Comparing it to a phone call , this defines words , and knowing to speak again if the line is bad . The next layer above that is the network layer .
Modern portfolio theory dramatically underestimates the risk of the recommended assets. This is because so few underlying assets are in the recommended part of the curve. As investors identify such assets, large amounts of money are invested in them. This temporarily reduces measured risk, and temporarily increases measured return. Sooner or later, "the trade" becomes "crowded". Eventually, large amounts of money try to "exit the trade" (into cash or the next discovered asset). And so the measurable risk suddenly rises, and the measured return drops. In other words, modern portfolio theory causes bubbles, and causes those bubbles to pop. Some other strategies to consider:
There are several reasons why it is difficult to produce perfect speakers or headphones . This problem is so big indeed that even the best of all speakers suck bad , humans are simply quite good at filtering out inaccuracies . This will be more about speakers in general , not just headphones . - the membranes have a significant weight compared to the air they move and are suspended by a spring . This means that they ca n't oscillate freely , they are a spring / mass system with a resonance frequency and very complicated response to the force applied by the motor . This is a huge problem , especially at the lower frequencies . If you compare the voltage applied to the speaker and the movement of the membrane you will notice huge differences . - the voice coil , a metal coil attached to the membrane sitting in the magnet that conveys a force on it through the [ lorentz force ] ( URL_1 ) and is the equivalent to the rotor in electric motors , has an [ inductance ] ( URL_0 ) . This describes the energy that is needed to create a magnetic field in a coil , an effect that increases the resistance ( called impendance in this case ) the higher the frequency of the signal is , causing a decrease in volume at high frequencies . This is a huge problem for fullrange ( just one type of chassis
If we start a company together you and I both own half of it . Now if I wanted to share my half with my brother I could split my part of the company into halfs again and give one to my brother . This is done with big companies many many times . Each part of the company is called a stock and big companies have many many many stocks . Now when people want to buy or sell their part of the company ( their stock or also called shares ) they do this on a market . That is the stock market . Every day people try to sell and buy parts of companies . If you buy stock in companies that do well , your little part of the company will become worth more ; but if that company looses all its money and has to go bankrupt and close , no one will give you much or any money for the stocks you have .
It is almost a sure thing that the housing market will crash again hugely.For this reason I prefer to own several houses that way when it does no one can ask for their money back and leave me homeless. Current economics suggest a fall of between 40-60% from 2011 prices meaning that if you have bought a house in the last 12 years you can wave bye bye to any and all equity, and this will happen very soon. I recommend saving your money and buying a house outright (like I did 3 times) from someone who has spent 12 years or so paying a mortgage.
this would cause * disinflation * not deflation . deflation would be a negative inflation rate . disinflation is a lowering of the inflation rate . think of it as " deceleration " in a car , you are going 60 mph and take your foot slightly off the gas , going 58 mph . you are lowering the inflation expectations of the populace .
Because division is the opposite of multiplication . Why is it that 6 ÷ 3 = 2 ? Because 2 × 3 = 6 , of course . Now let 's try to divide by zero . What is 6 ÷ 0 ? Well , the answer would have to be a number that , when you multiply by 0 , would give you 6 . But anything times 0 is 0 , so there is no answer .
Not only can there be , there are people who are the exact mirror of normal ! There are many people ( it 's rare , but still a significant number ) who live perfectly normal lives with reversed internal organs . Many do n't or would n't know until they go in for something unrelated and the doctor says oh BTW funny fact ...... URL_0
Some [ explanation here ] ( URL_0 ): Teddy Roosevelt had horrible asthma as a kid ; his family tried a bunch of different things to cure him , some helped and others made it worse , but fresh air and the outdoors , and a lot of exercise , helped a lot ; he had poor eyesight , which he used as a reason to practice shooting guns to improve his accuracy . He was also from a relatively well - to - do family , which had the resources to build him into a healthy , burly , gun - shooting guy . This also involved a burgeoning interest in politics , where he tended to be on the war - and - police end of things ; he had a positive sense of social justice and worked on cleaning up corruption ; he fought in wars and lived in remote North Dakota ; he was an all - around tough guy . There 's lots of books about the guy ; go read some . jpbandit 's " Ron Swanson " equivalency is close , although Teddy was n't quite as Libertarian ; Teddy is probably more comparable to Ron Swanson 's alter ego Nick Offerman .
Let 's say that you know how to make a key to open a lock . Could you build a key that perfectly fits a specific lock out in the world that you know absolutely nothing about , that you 're not allowed to inspect , or even see ? How many keys would you have to make before you made the one that perfectly fit this random lock ?
Think of it like the flow of water . Volts = water pressure Amps = volume of water that 's moving If you have high pressure , but low volume ( high voltage , low amperage ) that 's like a dentist 's water pik . If you have high volume , but low pressure ( high amperage but low voltage ) that 's like your basement flooding through the walls or drains If you have high volume and high pressure ( high amperage and high voltage ) that 's like a fire - hose hitting you in the chest at 3 feet and blowing you back across the room . Watts is a measurement of how much force is produced , in other words , how big an effect that water flow ( electrical flow ) produces .
Hello and Welcome to ‘Ask A Doctor’ service. I have reviewed your query and here is my advice. I read your question and can understand your concern. Amoxicillin (a mox) is a broad spectrum Penicillin that would cover most of the organisms that cause respiratory infection. So yes, this can be sufficient for you. The recommendations also suggest a mOX for pnemonia untI'll very serious. So it's good choice for you and I hope it works for you. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.
They 're not . Hardcore conservatives and their media ( Fox News , talk radio , etc ) are pretty venomous towards them , but they 're a rather sizable part of American politics . They won the last two presidential elections in landslides . Come to Massachusetts or my adopted state of California . " Conservative " is a very dirty word here .
Deep image prior is a type of convolutional neural network used to enhance a given image with no prior training data other than the image itself. A neural network is randomly initialized and used as prior to solve inverse problems such as noise reduction, super-resolution, and inpainting. Image statistics are captured by the structure of a convolutional image generator rather than by any previously learned capabilities.
There are several kinds of RFIDs , but passports use a passive chip -- it has no internal power source . Instead , the chip is charged up for use each time you try to " read " it . all radio antennas work by generating electricity when hit by radio waves . With an RFID , the electricity from the receiving antenna is enough to power up the chip , which emits back a tiny signal from its own transmitter .
The others have already pointed out that pi is a * relationship * between the diameter and circumference of a circle . But what does that actually mean , you ask ? Well , imagine that you have a bunch of perfectly - round pennies . Lay them flat on the table in front of you , in a single - file so that the edges are touching . Now , if you were take one of those pennies , stand it on its side , and * roll * it across the table , you would see that - in order to do 1 full revolution - it would roll across exactly 3.14159 ... of the pennies you laid down ! And the great thing is , it does n't matter what size coin you use . A circle will always have this property , no matter how big or how small it may be . It will * always * intersect 3.14159 ... times its diameter in order to complete 1 full revolution . Take a look at [ * * this wikipedia article * * ] ( URL_0 ) . On the right hand side , they have a short .gif image showing this in action .
A share is just a part ownership of a company. If you buy a share of a green stock in the open market, you now just own part of a green company. Just like if you buy a house, the money you paid moves to the former owner, but what you are getting is a clear asset in return that you now own. Via mutual funds/indexes this can get a little more complicated (voting rights etc tend to go to the mutual/indexing company rather than the holders of the fund), but is approximately the same thing: the fund buys assets on the open market, then holds them, buys more, or sells them on behalf of the fund investors.
Most of the proofs you 'll see in readable blogs are subtly wrong , but the answer is still right . It comes from an [ analytic continuation ] ( URL_1 ) of the [ Riemann - Zeta function ] ( URL_0 ) . Unfortunately , an actual proof involving the analytic continuation approach would n't make a nice video . If it 's in widespread use in pure math applications ( eg string theory ) , you can be sure someone has picked out all the flaws .
For starters , what /u / rhomboidus says is absolutely true , there is no such thing as different " races " of people , scientifically speaking . This is why saying " ethnicity " is more accepted now , because the whole point behind " race " has always about separating people from " us " based on physical characteristics , while ethnicity focuses on the heritage or background of a person . Anyways , skin ! Skin colour is an adaptation that can be either long - term or short term and is linked to our environment and our genes . Our bodies naturally respond to sunshine by producing melanin , one of the substances in our skin that affects skin colour . Melanin makes us dark or light . Having darker skin protects us from the harmful effects of UV light . This is why people tan when they 're out in the sun , it 's a temporary immediate ( or also delayed , depending on the context ) adaptation to a stimulus . People get tanned from being in the sun , people lose a tan from not being exposed to the same levels of sunshine . One of the ways in which our bodies receives vitamin D is through the skin , as a photochemical reaction triggered by sunlight . Vitamin D is important for skeletal development and maintenance - a lack of vitamin D synthesis in kids can produce rickets and osteomalacia in
This is slightly confused . You are taking cyclooxygenase inhibitors to reduce the circulating inflammatory proteins ability to cause fever centrally . This is a response to make the body more hostile to the invading organism as enzymes are generally temperature responsive . Paracetamol and nonsteroidals therefore are antipyretic . Pain is a problem that can be associated with some symptoms of infection such as joint pains and headaches . In this case the analgesic qualities of these same meds will help .
Financial Literacy is about learning about finance and money and how to use and manage them to give you better outcomes in life. Just like the more books you read and the more writing you do will improve your literacy, the more financial books you read, the more questions you ask and the more you participate in this forum and others like it, the more you will improve your financial literacy. The more financial literate you are the more you will be able to make informed decisions regarding your finances and the more you will be able to avoid financial scams.
Eating in moderation is the idea of moderating what you eat . You only let yourself eat a small amount of junk food compared to large amounts of healthy foods such as vegetables , fish , whole grains and a healthy amount of red meat . It 's not necessarily so much about the time table you use to eat , but more about how the table is balanced .
Hoo boy , this is a big one . I 'll try my best to be brief and give only the minimum necessary details . If you want more clarification , you can reply with questions . Here we go : * Motherboard : the " body " of the computer , it connects all the other parts together , and allows connections with peripherals . It 's a big circuit board , and has plugs on it 's surface for components , and plugs on the edge for USBs , monitor , keyboard / mouse , speakers , etc . * PSU(Power Supply Unit ): provides power to all the other parts . It 's the thing you plug your power cord into , and it has wires hanging off of it that you attach to the other parts . * CPU(Central Processing Unit ): the " brain " of the computer . It performs calculations and makes everything work . The speed that the processor works at is measured in GHz(Gigahertz , or billions of cycles per second ) . * GPU(Graphics Processing Unit ): a secondary processor that specializes in performing vector math really really fast , to allow for 3d graphics to be presented on screen . * RAM(Random Access Memory ): the short - term memory of your computer . It holds on to data that the processor might need really soon , and data can be written to it and read from it almost
You will need to register as self-employed aka sole trader (that's the whole point: pay taxes on income that you're not getting as wages from an employer, who would arrange PAYE/NI contributions), or set up a limited company (in the last case you would have the option of either getting paid as wages or as dividends — which one is better is a complex issue which varies from year to year). You'll find lots of advice on the HMRC website.
The solution is x = 8.92. This assumes that Chuck's six years of deposits start from today, so that the first deposit accumulates 10 years of gain, i.e. 20*(1 + 0.1)^10. The second deposit gains nine years' interest: 20*(1 + 0.1)^9 and so on ... If you want to do this calculation using the formula for an annuity due, i.e. http://www.financeformulas.net/Future-Value-of-Annuity-Due.html where (formula by induction) you have to bear in mind this is for the whole time span (k = 1 to n), so for just the first six years you need to calculate for all ten years then subtract another annuity calculation for the last four years. So the full calculation is: As you can see it's not very neat, because the standard formula is for a whole time span. You could make it a little tidier by using a formula for k = m to n instead, i.e. So the calculation becomes which can be done with simple arithmetic (and doesn't actually need a solver).
For reference , here is the order of operations when you load a web page : 1 . You click a link , type in a URL , select a bookmark , etc . - Your browser sends sends some data to the web server , specifying the page to load ( " HTTP request " ) . - The web server will load the HTML file from memory or disk , or generate it using server - side scripts , and send that file to your browser ( " HTTP response " ) . - Your browser will read that HTML to determine what all the parts of it mean ( " parsing " ) . If the HTML file contains links to external files , such as images , scripts , stylesheets , or applets , then your browser will send requests for those files to the server . - Meanwhile , it will start the process of turning that page into graphical output on your screen ( " rendering " ) . - When the server receives more requests , it will load the requested files and send them on to your browser . - When your browser receives those other files , it will incorporate them into the rendering process as appropriate . If it takes more than a very short time to receive the stylesheet after the HTML has been received , then the browser may initially render the page without the style information .
1 ) Who is Mohammed ? Mohammed was a man born a little over a thousand years ago in the Middle East . According to Islam , Mohammed was the last prophet born on Earth , and was gifted with God 's words because other religions were flawed . He founded the religion of Islam . 2 ) Islam is one of the " Abrahamic Religions , " along with Christianity and Judaism . Islam was started by Mohammed . It shares many of the same stories as Christianity and Judaism too- like Adam & Eve , Moses freeing the Jews from Egypt , and Noah 's Ark. It also shares some stories with Christianity that it does not share with Judaism- Islam considers Jesus to have been a prophet , like Mohammed , but not the son of God . Islam also features the Virgin Mary prominently ; moreso than even the Bible . 3 ) Why do n't they eat pork ? According to Muslims , God told them not to eat pork . Jews believe the same . 4 ) Why do they treat women badly ? Do they all treat women badly ? No , not all of them treat women badly . There are some Islamic nations of the world which treat women very badly , but not all Muslims do , and not all Islamic nations do either . A lot of the bad treatment of women is actually something fairly new- historically ,
You can argue that discrimination is justified if you 're being a certain gender or race or whatever will impede your ability to do the job . So for instance , it 's illegal to discriminate against the disabled , but a construction firm can deny employment to a quadriplegic , on the grounds that they physically can not do the job . However , if the job was something like working on a computer , you could n't deny employment , because there are reasonable accommodations that can be made to allow quadriplegics to use computers . There 's no reasonable accommodations that will allow a quadriplegic to work in construction . And so the same goes for men at Hooter 's . Hooter 's is selling the experience of being served by attractive women . A man , by definition , ca n't do the job of being an attractive woman , so they can legally discriminate .
The placebo pills provide no protection ; they 're taken during the time in a woman 's cycle when she 's naturally infertile . They 're included in the box so that women can maintain the routine of taking one tablet per day at all times which is a cheap and effective way to simplify the proper schedule of hormone dosage .
No . When you buy a gun from a dealer at a gun show you are still required to fill out a 4473 and get a NICS check . Also , there are usually people walking around with their personal guns to sell , maybe a rifle or two with a sign on it . If there is a face to face transfer , most gunshows require that you still do it through a 3rd party FFL on site . They usually have a booth set up specifically for this . Of course face to face sales are still legal in most states , so lots of times these people can just walk off the premises to do the sale , but that is n't special to gunshows , this happens thousands of times a day all over the place . I 've bought and sold many guns in public areas like the Walmart parking lot . Meet up , show the gun to the guy , agree on a price , and you are done . Individuals have no obligation to conduct a NICS check or hold a 4473 .
Natural sugar comes in things like fruit , which also has lots of fiber , which helps your body absorb it slowly , at a rate that it can properly manage . Refined sugars ( which are chemically pretty similar to natural sugars - it 's not like they 're totally different things ) usually get added to our foods in amounts completely out of proportion to the fiber content . They get absorbed very quickly , which causes your body to overreact and overproduce the hormones that control how we use those sugars . That causes all sorts of problems throughout the body . It makes you feel hungry even as you 're actively turning all the excess calories you just ate into fat , it fucks with the immune system , it even increases the risk of dementia in old age if you regularly put your body in this state . Note that it 's not about the type of sugar , it 's about the amount and the rate . Starchy food will cause the same problems if you do n't eat them with enough fiber . Likewise , even healthy things like apples will cause this problem if you remove the fiber ( leaving just the juice ) . The reason you hear about natural sugars being good is because people commonly confuse the specific type of sugar ( natural 's not really any better ) with the way that it 's consumed ( artificially concentrated
In these bears is a chemical called Maltitol . Maltitol is a plant sugar altered in a lab to be less digestible . This means it does n't hurt your teeth and takes longer to release it 's sugar content into your system , making it safer for diabetics . Win win ! Except , because it does n't digest quickly , it spends a lot more time sitting in your stomach and intestines than normal sugar . This causes osmosis to take place and your body begins to release water into your digestive track . So , your belly full of sugarfree gummy bears has become a liquid soup of sugar water and whatever else you 've eaten in your bowels . And things in your bowels like to come out . Normally , the osmosis works the other way , drying out your feces so as to reduce water loss , but in this case , no such thing happens and the soupy poop water heads for your hole with the wild abandon of the Colorado river .
I work at a college radio station . We get a constant stream of new music sent to us by record companies that we digitize . If Djs feel like playing the actual cd , they can . We used to get vinyl too , so we have a huge collection of vinyl that can be played . Beyond that , most student djs just play music off their laptops , which means it is their music that they 're playing . The music we get comes either from record companies that have been sending us music for a while and know about us , or from labels we contact if we 're interested in an album they 're putting out . We typically get music before it 's actually released . We 're not allowed to play commercials either since we 're not a commercial station .
As a rapper , I can tell you - it 's to keep the beat . Unlike with singing , with rap you need to keep your phrasing EXACTLY on the beat or you will just sound like you 're babbling . Also , there are often a LOT of words to remember and you 've also go to remember which parts of the word or phrase are emphasised and which parts are not . Doing all this at the same time requires a lot of concentration and moving your hand or other part of you body in time with the beat helps you keep your words " tight " I 'd compare it to the way some classical guitarists will tap their feet ot nod their head when playing - it 's all to help them keep time . Obviously , the better you get at rapping , the less you need to " keep the beat " in this way
A stack is a data structure . It 's not a difficult concept to grasp . Imagine you are washing dishes and you are stacking plates that you wash . After you wash one , you put it on the stack . After you wash the next , you put it on the top of the stack . You do n't put it in the middle or on the bottom . Now when you want to grab a plate to put some food on , you grab the plate at the top . Again , you do n't want to take the plate from the bottom . This concept is called last in , first out ( LIFO ) , or first in , last out ( FILO ) , depending on the person . In other words , the last item you put on the stack ( " push " onto the stack ) will be the first item you take off the stack ( " pop " from the stack ) . Stacks can be used for anything . In it 's most basic form , it is simply a way to hold a collection of data , just like an array or a linked list . However , there is a very important use of a stack that you see in programming . This is the memory stack . It is hardware based - not software based When you here the term " the stack " ,
The foundation is the processor 's instruction set . These are behaviors built into the circuits of the processor . Things like arithmetic , fetching and storing chunks of data , and a whole lot of branching and signal logic . Branching being a condition " if x , then y , else z " , represents a decision . Signals and interrupts are when an event occurs , like the clock ticks a microsecond forward , or your network card needs to signal there is new data available from the network . Each instruction has a unique number to identify it . There are physical input circuits , called the instruction register , that communicate what instruction to perform . Individual transister " gates " are turned on or off , which we represent numerically as 1 or 0 . A binary counting system is useful for this , but we use a base 10 ( decimal ) or , in the field , a base 16 ( hexadecimal ) counting system . There are additional registers to recieve inputs , provide outputs , perhaps act as inputs and outputs , or just output only , of data . Some instructions use a combination of them , some do n't . In the olden days , processing capabilities were limited and memory was scarce . Part of programming was in the wiring , some of it was entering binary data with switches and a LOAD button . Then there
Bacterial cells are quite different from human cells - they do all sorts of interesting things that we can target to blow up the cell without harming a human cell ( as much ) . Thus antibiotics are easier to develop because you have a lot more potential targets . Virus use your own cell 's machinery to reproduce themselves . They are just DNA floating in an injection mechanism ( simplified ) . They do n't do a whole lot of things differently than any of your other cells - they just hijack the things your cells normally do to other ends . So Virus do n't have a lot of targets to blow up . Some of them do , but they are very hard to find and especially to blow them up without blowing up a lot of your normal cells . We 've had good success at stopping HIV but only because it became a worldwide crisis and we threw a trillion dollars at it - and the side effects of the medications are only just now getting down to reasonable . There 's treatments for other things too , like herpes , but a lot of things just are n't important enough to throw a trillion dollars at finding a treatment for - rabies only kills a few tens of thousands a year , cold sores are just an annoyance , you can get warts burned off .
From what I can glean , nothing of significance has come to light * yet * . Imagine a little boy , Stratfor , who kids pay to get information on other kids in the classroom . Stratfor makes notes about what he finds , has records of who has hired him for what , and writes down a lot of what he does . Now another boy , Anonymous , has stolen a lot of Stratfor 's notes and gave them to a kid named Wikileaks who will show the notes to the entire school . Wikileaks has read these notes and says that Stratfor has been doing some bad things that we should know about . Right now , Wikileaks has n't shown us anything particularly devastating yet , but that will probably change in the future as more information is released . * Based on ev3rclear 's AP article link
Stem cells are cells in your body that have n't yet turned into something specific . People start as a single , fertilized cell . They then start dividing into lots and lots of cells , eventually become hair , bones , teeth , spleens , all that stuff . Stem cells are the cells that in 1 circumstance could become a toenail , in another circumstance become a brain cell , in another become part of your colon . Another related term is ' undifferentiated ' . They could become a lot of things . It 's not quite as simple as , say , sticking stem cells into a paraplegic and shzam ! they can walk . But they could be that simple . We need to do more research . They 're not getting funded because they 're tied up in the debate about abortion . At the time of birth , the cells are mostly done dividing up into their jobs . You 've got a lot of organs that need to get bigger , but you 're mostly functional when you 're born . So humans from day 1 do n't have many stem cells left , and the ones they do have are a different sort . I say " many " because there are some stem cells in umbilical blood and stuff like that . But there are lots of stem cells present in the fetus . But the main reason people are
No . There is no surface to land on . However , most gas giants , such as Jupiter , are thought to have very dense solid cores at their center , very deep inside . But by the time you got that deep into the planet 's atmosphere , your ship would be crushed like a wet tissue by the atmospheric pressure . A probe fired from the Galileo mission into Jupiter and went down on a parachute . It only lasted a little over an hour before it was crushed out of existence .
There was a man that got an honorary degree in law because they coldn't award one in medicine . This was in 1976 . This man practically invented the open heart surgery field and was an extremely talented doctor whom never stepped a foot into medical school . meet Vivien Thomas URL_0 Honorary degrees are meant to be given to deserving people . People whom deserve a doctorate for their amazing work .
Just as chemists see all materials as composed of elements in the Periodic Table of the Elements , mathematicians see all integers as composed of primes . * * Primes are like a Periodic Table of the Numbers * * ( well , integers anyway ) . ( Note : " Periodic " is a bad name here since the primes do n't have properties that repeat in periods . But it gets the idea across that primes are the fundamental " atoms " of number theory . )
There actually is , but it 's still new so almost nothing supports it . The way the Internet works , it 's basically sending messages to addresses ( where each address corresponds to one Internet connection ) . The idea of a single device having multiple addresses was n't planned when the foundations for the Internet were designed in the 70s . The Internet Engineering Task Force published a Request for Comments on what they call [ multipath TCP ] ( URL_0 ) a couple years ago . It 's still considered experimental . Newer iPhones use it to allow more seamless switching between wi - fi and cellular data , but that 's the only use of it that I know of .
If your father is still able to make financial decisions and sign contracts, I see a better option. Have your father borrow against his equity to finance the renovation. Example: the house is worth 400 now. He can borrow 100 against that. He spends it on the addition, making the house worth 500, with the same 400 of equity as before. (In some cases, spending 100 might add 150 to the house value, but let's assume here the increase is just what was spent.) When he dies, the mortgage has to be repaid. If he has no other money (that the two of you would otherwise split) then the mortgage has to be repaid by the two of you putting in cash. So you pay your brother 250 (half the new total value of the house) but he gives 50 of that to the bank for the mortgage. You also give 50 of your own money to the bank for the mortgage. Net result: your brother has 200 (the same as if he had inherited half the unimproved house), and you have a 500 house after paying out 300. Your gain is also the same as if the house was unimproved. Now if the house went up 150 by spending 100, or went up 60 by spending 100, you and your brother would also be sharing this profit or loss. If you don't want that to happen, you will need a different agreement. The advantage of the approach I'm suggesting
You can read the deliberations that the US scientists and military men had in May 1945 over the first nuclear targets [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . The possibility of bombing the Emperor 's palace was discussed but dismissed — they did n't want to kill the Emperor and the high command , they wanted to induce them to surrender . They felt the best way to do this was to demonstrate the bomb 's power on unbombed targets — the few cities of any consequence that had escaped the ruinous firebombing of Japan . The initial targets that fit the criteria were Kyoto , Hiroshima , Yokohama , Kokura , and Niigata . Kyoto was removed by Secretary of War Stimson himself because of its cultural / religious value . Yokohama was firebombed soon after the meeting so it dropped off the list . A new city , Nagasaki , was added to the final list . The list of targets , by priority , were then Hiroshima , Kokura , Niigata , and Nagasaki . Hiroshima was bombed on August 6 , 1945 ; Kokura was meant to be the primary target for the second bomb on August 9 but cloud cover meant that the secondary target , Nagasaki , was bombed instead . A third bomb was being readied for the end of August . There were rumors that Tokyo might have been its target but all atomic operations were halted on August 10th when it
1 . Suicide negatively impacts those around you , so you 're not the only one effected by it . 2 . Suicide is usually performed in an altered state of mind , such as clinical depression , and the person would not want to commit suicide while in their normal state of mind . Yes , there 's a large probability that this is a troll , but meh , I 'm bored .
Well , there are two reasons . First , you 're doing the math wrong . You do n't add or subtract to get the opposite conversion , you multiply or divide . So if 1 canadian dollar is worth 0.70 USD , then 1 USD is worth 1/0.70 = 1.42 Canadian Dollars . The other reason is that people who do currency exchanges charge a fee , so when you exchange money , you 'll lose some on either end of the transaction .
A lot of these posts are on the basics of binary . I 'm going to assume you also want to know the second part of your question . * * * * First , encoding . * Encoding * is assigning a binary value to something . In akihiko 's example , all on is encoded to 111 . * Decoding * is taking this value apart , like " the first 1 means the lights are off . " * * * * Now , text . The standard is * ASCII*(ask - ee ) . ASCII encoding assigns a ton of standard characters to an 8 - bit number . [ URL_1 ] ( URL_2 ) shows each character and its ASCII value . In ASCII encoding : Hello World ! translates to 010010000110010101101100011011000110111100100000010101110110111101110010011011000110010000100001 If you break apart each group of 8 bits and use the table , you can convert back to " Hello World ! " Any .txt file is just a stream of binary numbers like the example above . There are also several other encoding schemes like Unicode that are beyond the scope of ELI5 . * * * * Now on to pictures . First , let 's go over what a picture is to a computer . A picture is made up of a bunch of pixels , each with its own color , in a 3 dimensional array . The way a pixel color is represented is a 24 bit
Once the brain stops getting oxygen , there 's usually less than 5 minutes to get oxygen going to it again . After that 5 minutes , the cells in the brain die and are dead for good . They 're just very sensitive . So when you choke or drown , you only have the oxygen that was already in your blood to sustain you . You 've got a few minutes . If you die , your heart will stop . That 's death . So there 's a 2 or 3 minute window that CPR can start to pump blood again , and oxygen can be given through rescue breaths . And the new methods used that involve cooling the dead are pretty neat . In some of the newer trials , all blood in the body is being replaced with very cold saline . This slows the metabolism of the body to the point where you have a couple hours to fix whatever injury there was . So let 's say you have a large artery cut in your shoulder , and you 're bleeding out . Well it 'll take too long to repair usually , so you get drained of blood and filled with cold saline . That buys time for the repair . Then you are rewarmed at a " Medium " pace . Too slow or too fast is bad . The studies are showing hugely better outcomes . Fun fact :
Heat seeking missiles have a very narrow field of view in their heat ( infrared radiation ) sensor . They can pivot the sensor though . When a missile is not tracking yet , it is scanning an area in front with that sensor for potential heat sources it could go after . This is why it takes some time for a missile to lock on . Modern missiles tracking heads can be pointed at a heat source that is off the center line , and lock on . Once locked on , the tracking head is pointing at the heat source , and tries to navigate the missile in a way that it can keep looking at the heat source . There 's two ways to get a heat seeking missile break the lock . One is if the missile can not manoeuvre enough to keep the tracking head looking at the target . If the target is out of sight , the missile will just do random stuff ( as in keep going straight until the fuel is depleted or the missile self - destructs ) The other one is to present the heat sensor a more attractive target ... there 's a lot of theory to it , but on older missiles it boils down to : something hotter in sight . This can be a magnesium flare dropped by the target , it can as well be the Sun . Also , if you point your
The same way traditional drug dealers do . From producers , or importers ( who get them from producers ) . The drug supply chain does not change , what changes is how the product gets to the end user . Think of it like Amazon vs a general store . They both buy products from suppliers and wholesalers but they retail the products very differently .
Why it 's so important : It 's revealed a culture of intimidation in Rupert Murdoch 's businesses . Whistleblower ( a man who died shortly into this scandal ) testimony explains how Rupert Murdoch is basically a mafia - king . He uses his media empire to influence politics , sometimes in a threatening way . In summary , a Private Individual , has been using his means to threaten Public servants . The whole scandal just really shows how fucked up the media is . Him especially .
For better security . Any information no matter how small could allow someone to game the system and brute force a login . Let me give you an example . Say that I really did n't like Joe Forman and I wanted to get into his facebook account but I do n't know what his username is but I know a few email addresses he 's used . Login : Jforman@. URL_1 bad username Login : Joe_f@. URL_0 bad username Login : Lvs2@airmail.net bad password Aha . So Instead of not knowing what was wrong , now I know that lvs2@airmail.net is the right login . Now I can use other tricks to log in . I can try some commonly guessed passwords . I can go to a black hat web site and see if anyone with that email address ever had a password stolen , and hope they use the same password on other sites . I could google Joe Forman or that email , find out their birthday , maybe the name of their pet , favorite color from some questionnaire they took 5 years ago in a public forum . And I can use some of these to do a password reset " What is your birthday ? Your pets name ? " etc . Basically brute forcing an account is infinitely easier if you are able to get any pieces of information . It goes from impossible to hard , and hard is just a
Interest rates are determined by how risky it is to make a loan . To justify taking a larger risk , the bank needs to be compensated by earning more money on the loan . Everyone wants to make loans to rich people because they 're very likely to pay you all your money back plus interest . Fewer people want to make loans to poor people because they 're less likely to pay back the money . For example , bonds are loans that you make to the US Government . Since the US Government is stable and wealthy , the bonds pay very little interest , but they are very safe . This is like interest rates in a wealthy country . The less safe the investment is , the more interest you have to earn to encourage the bank to want to make the loan .
England is at the bottom , below Scotland and to the Right of Wales . It is one country . Great Britain and Britain are the same thing and mean the collection of England , Scotland and Wales . The UK is Britain plus Northern Ireland . The full name is The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , or for the completely full name ; The United Kingdom of England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . The Republic of Ireland is not part of the UK and is a separate country from Northern Ireland , just FYI .
My guess would be that it 's mainly based on publicity potential . If they 're too stingy it could cause them a black eye . So they 'll be pretty generous , without leaving the limit so high as to represent an unacceptable expense . That said , you should realize that in most contests the prize itself is far from being the biggest expense involved . For a big contest , advertising and publicity can cost twenty times the prize , and administration of entries and suchlike can cost a few times the prize . It is n't really worth their while to spend lots of time trying to research exactly how big the prize should be ( i.e. let 's do lots of work to find out just how much gas an average family of four uses in a year ) if for no other reason than because the money spent doing that research would better be spent making the prize itself bigger , so that it 's better publicity .
When the solar system was forming , there was just a ton of dust and gas . Eventually , as gas started to accumulate at the center , a gravity well was created . Dust / gas further out began swirling around this gravity well ; most falling in to the center ( which became the Sun ) , but some was too far away or traveling too fast to get captured , so it just spun around and around without ever falling in . Eventually , the solar system resembled Saturn ... the center planet = Sun , the rings = orbiting dust that refused to fall in . Over billions of years , the dust rings came together under their own gravity and formed planets . tl;dr , the planets are actually forced from the dust / gas that did n't fall in to the sun . Why does dust / gas form a ring instead of being a sphere ? Gravity is some crazy shit , man .
To be deductible, a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your trade or business. A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business. An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary. (IRS, Deducting Business Expenses) It seems to me you'd have a hard time convincing an auditor that this is the case. Since business don't commonly own cars for the sole purpose of housing $25 computers, you'd have trouble with the "ordinary" test. And since there are lots of other ways to house a computer other than a car, "necessary" seems problematic also.
First , second , third , etc . cousins are at the same level in the family tree . The numbering refers to how many generations are between you and a common ancestor ( for first cousins , your common ancestor is your grandparent which has one generation ( your parents ) separating you from them . The once , twice , etc . removed refers to relatives that are n't at the same level on the family tree . They count the same in either direction ( up and down ) from your level of the tree . So , technically , your aunts and uncles are first cousins once removed , but so would their grandkids be . Your second cousin twice removed would be someone related to your great - grandparents , two generations away from you . So either your great grandparents ' kid ( at the level of your grandparents , making them a great - aunt / uncle ) , or your great - grandparents ' great - great - great - grandkid ( your second cousin 's grand kid ) .
Because humans empathize . That is , they feel a little bit of the same emotions of the other people they experience . You are more likely to be sad when you see other people cry , and you are more likely to think something is funny when other people laugh . You are also more likely to yawn when other people yawn . It has to do with mirror neurons . URL_0 I was actually part of the live studio audience for Two and a Half Men a couple years ago , for the third episode of the season when Aston joined . Do n't judge -- we went to that show because my sister liked it , not anyone else . It was really fun , though . Very fun and * free * way to experience Hollywood . They purposely try to keep the energy as high as possible between scenes with a comedian / magician host that really loved to make fun of the various producers and staff on the floor filming things while we were supposed to be quieting down . ( " Everyone quiet down , quiet down , we 're filming again , quiet down . * whispers * Oh , see that guy in the hawaiin shirt ? He is n't sure if its normal if his third testicle has n't dropped yet . " ) It was a horrible episode but it was fun experience . In the kissing scene of
Also , please explain how * Islamic * is politically incorrect . I hear complains of Muslims taking issue with terrorists being described as " Islamic " Edit : In the context that " Jewish " is acceptable and " Christian " is acceptable . But people get into a tizzy when " Islamic " is used to describe something . Maybe its personal , but I find the level of offense way higher with the latter .
This greatly depends on the local laws and the insurance contract terms. If I remember correctly, my own life insurance policy does also have special terms in case I die within a year of applying, so it doesn't sound totally bogus. For car loan insurance, the amount of coverage and premiums were probably low enough for the insurer not to want to spend the money upfront on the thorough investigation, but they probably do have a clause that covers them in case the insured passes away unreasonably quickly (unreasonably for a healthy person of the given age, that is).
Additionally , game assets like textures are stored on disk in the kinds formats you are probably familiar with , such as PNG or JPEG . Games read and make use of textures in video memory , most commonly , as an uncompressed two - dimensional grid of color values . Data in files such as PNG or JPEG are compressed using very complicated techniques - if you look at the [ Wiki page for JPEG ] ( URL_0 ) , you can get a sense of the math needing to be done to decode a JPEG file . Processing all the image files and doing all the math takes time . All the plumbing that needs to be done to move data into different intermediate formats and buffers until , ultimately , it 's in the right places in your graphics system so you can start rendering the game with them , also takes some time . Depending on the game , any relevant network communication could be done in a loading screen . That can obviously take some time , depending on whatever data needs to be transferred .
You know that one guy down the street who always does good things , but for the most part people ignore him ? If it were n't for you parents you would n't know about that guy ? Well , people like to talk about bad things . Bad things travel fast and freely . You need people to talk about good things and sometimes you have to buy people to make that happen . You are buying people to say good things about you , so you can do more good things . The more good things you do , the more people you can buy to do say good things about you . They , mostly being good people , also get to say good things about themselves while saying good things about that guy down the street . Ultimately , the more good things said about the guy up the street eventually leads to good things be said about the people who say good things about the guy down the street . It 's kind of like a circle , but with people instead .
Hi thanks for contacting healthcare magic..Let me know you do you have any blunt trauma over liver area?? Because severe blunt trauma can lead pain.Do you have jaundice, means excess yellow urine or yellow sclera??As this might be because of early hepatitis.So I will advise you to do USG and serum viral markers for that.If pain severe and it also reffered to back.So I also want to rule out gall bladder stone and inflammation of gall bladder. USG and CRP useful for it.If you have abdominal pain with nausea and diarrhea then enteritis might be cause.I hope your concern is solved.Take care.Dr.Parth Goswami
Simple breakdown : * * Plasma * * Uses ionized gases for each pixel to display colors . Think of it as miniature florescent light bulbs that alter colors to display a picture that you see . Except , there 's a million of them ! * Good for deep colors , especially blacks , wider viewing angles than LCD 's , and better screen refreshing rates to reduce motion blur . Though , LCD is pretty close on all of these . * Bad because of screen burn , especially older models , uses more power , and some electric signals can cause interference . * * LCD * * Stands for liquid - crystal display . The pixels in the screen are made of little liquid - filled crystals that alter properties to display color . Behind the screen is the light itself . The best way to describe this is to use a prism . You flash a light at the prism and then all these colors display . This provides the picture you see . * Good - Lighter than plasma televisions , low power consumption , images do n't blur , and can display same high quality image regardless of size ( unlike plasma ) * Disadvantages - viewing at different angles can display different colors / images ( technology much better now ) , black levels are poor , only one resolution , lower refresh rate , dead pixels can be a nuisance ,
In terms of the " second - person perspective " question , the reason you do n't hear that term is that it 's not widely used . It definitely does exist though . It 's not used often in books and other media but frequently in speech . It 's common knowledge that a first - person perspective is saying things like " I walked over there " while a third is " They walked over there . " For a second - person perspective , that would be like saying " You walked over there . " In speech we often refer to things by the second person perspective , it 's just that in terms of literature techniques -- where you 'll hear terms like first and third - person often -- it 's very rarely used .
As /u / ToolsofRage noted , organ transplants are extremely difficult . The human body 's immune system is very finely tuned to detect and destroy foreign invaders like bacteria and viruses , but it can not distinguish between a harmful virus and a beneficial transplanted organ and will attack them both . Transplant rejection is a huge concern , and the procedures to combat it - primarily , reducing the effectiveness of the immune system - can cause even worse complications . In most cancer situations , either only the affected ( cancerous ) part of the organ is removed ( i.e. a lobectomy , like Walter White had on ' Breaking Bad ' ) , or an external mechanism is used to replace the removed organ ( dialysis , for example ) , rather than a transplant .
And now it is at about $3. Many times "skeletons" are bought and inflated for various reasons. Some are legitimate (for example a private business merging into a defunct but public corporation to avoid wasting resources on going public), some are not (mainly pump-and-dump scams that are using "skeletons"). I don't know what was the case here (probably speculation based on the new marijuana laws in the US), but clearly the inflated price was completely unjustified since it went crashing down.
Money is minted and then every day the Federal Reserve exchanges shipments of money with various banks . Money is then further distributed to smaller and smaller banks . The money the Fed takes in is then shredded . If you go to a Fed bank , they usually have a visitors area where you can get a little baggy of shredded money . Or at least that used to be the case . Fun fact - The Fed used to incinerate all the money , but then it was discovered that burning the ink in money is toxic .
Leicester City were promoted to the EPL in 2014 . They 've generally been considered a lesser team , having been relegated several times and rarely have competed with the more established teams of the EPL . Also , the EPL has traditionally been dominated by the likes of the big spending clubs such as Manchester United , Manchester City , Chelsea and Arsenal . Leicester City are * not * a rich club , and have a squad without any superstar players ( although their striker Jamie Vardy is fast becoming one ) , yet they currently sit top of the EPL and look to have a * strong * chance of actually winning the title this season . They are considered massive underdogs and will be one of the only teams to break the EPL dominance without having to have spent a lot of money to do so .
Not incredibly . Black and white reduces colour information to begin with . White stays white , but pinks and yellows turn grey , greens , reds and blues turn dark . You can substitute a realistic and/or plausible pallet , but as the black and white photo only records an alpha channel , there is n't enough information to reformulate the exact colours . As for the process , it can be done " lazily " with a palette swap , where regions of grey are decided to be specific colours , which could be proper procedure for things like the sky or the ocean , or manually with each individual object in the photo . I can imagine more complex methods of automation , involving edge detection , but I have nothing concrete .
There are a bunch of generations in the i\ * family . In terms of newest to oldest , it goes Haswell , Ivy Bridge , and Sandy Bridge . Within each of those generations , there 's an i3 family , an i5 family , and an i7 family . There are a bunch of processors within each family , so even saying " I have an i3 Haswell " does n't specify a specific processor . In general , for the desktop line , they follow a specific set of rules though . The i3 is a dual - core processor with hyperthreading . Hyperthreading allows the computer to " pretend " that it 's a quad - core processor , even though it actually only has two . When there are spare resources on the core , the operating system is allowed to use those resources to work on a second task , so it acts like there are 4 cores available . The i5 is a quad - core processor without hyperthreading . The reason that 's still faster than the i3 is that having four actual cores is better . The i3 can only " pretend " to have four cores when there are spare resources , so if all the core 's resources are taken up , it 's stuck acting like a dual - core . The i7 has four cores and hyperthreading , so the computer treats it like an eight -
> What does the concept of " free trade " really mean ? [ LY5 ] imagine that you want to play with your neighbor but every time that you want to play with him you must ask your parents for permission now , there is one more problem : your neighbor lives far away from you , and each time you want to play at his house you must cross a bridge and pay your neighbor for using that bridge the same applies to your neighbor but vice versa : every time that he wants to play in YOUR house he must pay YOU for using the bridge to come to your house , and ask his parents for permission one day your parents and your neighbor 's parents agree that you and your neighbor can come to play to each other house 's whenever you guys want to without asking your parents for permission and without paying for using the bridge that agreement is called free trade your parents are the USA and your neighbor 's parents are Mexico . you are Microsoft and your neighbor is Telmex ( a Mexican company ) . Microsoft can do business with Telmex without complicated burdens and vice - versa > What is North American Free Trade Agreement , who exactly agreed upon it ? it is a trade agreement signed by Canada , the USA , and Mexico > why is it controversial ? [ LY5 ] let 's go
I think there are a couple reasons . First , old families get very adept at hiding their assets . Second , over time the wealth becomes very diffused so not one person holds that much money ( i.e. the Vanderbilts ) . Sort of the opposite of the primogenitor laws of England where all the money stayed concentrated with one person . There are some families like the Kennedys that keep all of their wealth in a family trust that they all draw on , but not so many are like that .
Men evolved to be stronger , not women to be weaker . Men and women are complimentary individuals ; men have evolved to be the " provider " and the woman the " nurturer " . They learned to complete different tasks and if we were exactly the same , it would 've decreased productivity back when the roles of men / women were important .
The Butterfly effect ( not the movie ) is an exaggeration , but a very interesting one . The premise is that a butterfly flapping its wings on one side of the planet can cause a hurricane / tornado ( depending on who you ask ) on the other side of the planet . Of course this is n't possible . But the point is to show , through hyperbole , that certain systems can be drastically affected by very small changes . This phenomenon is called " sensitivity to initial conditions " and it 's a huge concept in chaos theory . Basically , there are certain systems , where if you make an ever - so - slight change in your initial conditions , the state of the system some time later can be extremely different than if you had n't changed the initial conditions . These systems are inherently very hard to predict . Any error in the initial value can multiply exponentially through time . Some common examples of these systems include double pendulums and weather systems . This is why weathermen never seem to get anything right . It 's mathematically IMPOSSIBLE to predict the weather more than a week or two in advance .
Having access to the right materials , and enough of it to do significant damage . Also it takes money to build the proper facilities to do it . You also need educated and skilled people to run the facility and make the bomb . The things needed to do this is heavily regulated by the UN . Plus intelligence agencies keep eyes on groups that would like to use one and those who would sell the stuff to them . If someone farts in the wrong direction , intelligence agencies know about it .
[ Searched ] ( URL_0 ) Relevant [ discussion ] ( URL_3 ) Original text by [ borntoperform ] ( URL_2 ) > Explain like I 'm actually a five year old playing around with a model airplane , and I ask you how , " How do planes weigh so much but are able to fly in the sky ? " Relevant comment courtesy [ Yondee ] ( URL_1 ) > Alrighty little Jimmy ! Let 's take a look at this model airplane you have . It is pretty neat right ? There are some specific pieces of the plane that are very important to it staying in the air . The first , obviously are the wings , but in order to understand the wings we need to make sure you understand the propeller . > Boy it is hot out ! Thank goodness we have that nice ceiling fan going . Do you notice how the ceiling fan is pushing air around Johnny ? Because the blades are angled it pushes the air down as the fan moves around in a circle right ? So we can picture the fan working like this : > * As the fan spins air is caught by the edge of the fan , the air is forced under the blade . > * Since the fan is still spinning and " gathering " more air on the top edge this new air pushes the air that was caught first
It 's generally a slow evolution from showing off your expertise , to conveying emotions through music . Baroque was named for the idea of " broken " chords - this is why you do n't hear block chords in Baroque music . They would arpeggiate everything . Another distinct thing to listen for in Baroque music is ornaments - things like trills , turns , mordents , anything added into the music . As players got better , they showed their unique skills by adding these in to show their expertise of the music and the instrument . Harpsichordists HAD to use these things because their notes did n't sustain , and if the note had to be heard for 2 beats , they did what they had to to make it happen . Classical is harder to define , but I really do think of it as the bridge between Baroque and Romantic . It still had elements of the Baroque ( ornaments , some broken chords ) but started to shift into more expressive and lyrical things . Romantic was when things started getting a little fruity . When you can hear nuances like pauses and LOTS of dynamic changes , taking time with the music and such , you 'll know you 're listening to a Romantic piece .
Your body has types of cells which can recognize parasites and the substances they produce . These cells release toxic chemicals which damage and kill parasites - toxins are only released when these cells run into the parasite . These cells also release chemicals which attract more anti - parasite cells . This results in an increasingly toxic response , and eventual death of the parasite . Parasites often have mechanisms to evade detection or withstand the toxic chemicals your body produces leading to a tug - of - war .
Cop here : They do n't want to be stationary for safety reasons ( they 're a harder target to shoot at ) and when they 're circling it usually means they 're looking for something . Moving around gives them a better view . However it can also be pilot preference . When I was working during riots , our city helicopter would swap out with the State Troopers ' . You could always tell which one it was because ours would circle , while theirs would sit completely still .
It does great things . But seriously , it latches onto a specific serotonin receptor subtype ( 5 - HT2A ) and activates it . I do n't think the process is fully understood , but this inhibits activity in the part of the brain associated with logic and the ego ; not ego in the sense of self - esteem , but ego in the sense of recognizing oneself as a separate entity from one 's surroundings . It also increases activity in the part of the brain associated with emotion and creativity .
Here in Las Vegas , the land is baked by the sun for most of the year ( we receive about 4 inches of rain per year , with only 21 days out of 365 with rain ) . It 's very hard because there is no moisture , and the little that does fall tends to make it like hard clay , rather than topsoil . We 're also in a " bowl " with mountains on all sides sloping down into a valley . Rainfall here tends to be like 10 minutes of torrential downpour , and then it stops , rather than just sprinkling all day . So this large amount of rain in a small amount of time does n't soak into the soil at first ( remember , it 's hard like clay ) , and it all runs downhill into the valley like an avalanche . As far as people not knowing , you should be aware if you live in a flooding area . An insurance company could tell you , and cities are constantly shifting where the flood zones are .
They do n't live long enough to suffer the consequence of it . Just like how they do n't get tooth decay from not brushing teeth . Also , I read somewhere on reddit where they said smaller animals are more resistant to radiation . It makes sense that their body is more simple than humans and so has less organs to fail .
Do you have metal caps on your teeth ? The zap of pain comes from two different types of metal interacting with each other . These metals — with help from our saliva — create something similar to a very low powered battery . When we bite down , the stored electric charge flows through the teeth to our nerves , and our brain interprets the nerve ’s signal as pain or discomfort .
> What is this ? A agreement to collectively take action against human - caused climate change and reduce the negative impacts of global warming and climate change in future years . > What countries participated ? Nearly every country , 196 to be exact . The largest agreement ever of its kind . > What agreements were made ? A commitment to limit global temperature rise well below 2 ° C ( relative to pre - industrial levels ) , with countries also agreeing to try and limit the rise to 1.5 ° C . For reference , it is thought that any rise in temperature beyond 2 ° C may have catastrophic climate effects and very serious consequences for many countries down the road . The agreement also involves helping poorer / less developed nations combat climate change by providing these countries 100 Billion dollars of funding each year to help with the development of sustainable and renewable energy and greener industrial practices in these regions . As part of the agreement , countries will also have to be more transparent with their greenhouse gas reduction targets and their performance ( whether they are actually meeting these targets ) . The ideal is to be carbon - neutral by 2050 ( where humans are n't adding any more greenhouse gasses than trees etc . can naturally absorb ) ... but unless we dramatically reduce our reliance on fossil fuels , this may be a tough target to reach
Deserts are shaped by weathering and erosion . Physical weathering is the most common form of weathering in the desert . As the day heats up , rocks in the desert expand . At night , however , temperatures drop and rock contracts . This puts stress on rocks and causes them to break apart and the strong dry wind breaks the rock particles further creation of so called , sand . Another way physical weathering takes place in the desert is when salt crystals form in the cracks between and within rocks . Salt is deposited in the cracks during storms . As the salt crystals grow , they force the rock apart in the same way and breaks down the rocks and the strong wind again helps in the creation of sand .
A program is just a bunch of very simple instructions for doing something . A programming language lets you say how to do something complicated in terms of several simple steps — including steps that are repeated ( " loops " ) and steps where you might decide which of two or more things to do ( " conditionals " ) . For instance , suppose you are programming a little robot that can move around on a piece of paper . The robot has a pen in its belly , so it draws a line wherever it goes . You would like to get the robot to draw a square . But all it knows how to do is * go forward or back by some number of inches * , and * turn left or right by some number of degrees * . So you have to tell it how to make a square out of those moves . You might write a program like this : to draw_a_square forward 2 right 90 forward 2 right 90 forward 2 right 90 forward 2 right 90 end If the robot runs that program , it will have drawn a square , and ended up back where it started . This is , in fact , a program in the language [ Logo ] ( URL_1 ) , which used to be very popular for teaching programming to grade school students . You can find the Logo programming language [
There are a lot of things that sanctions can mean . Sanctions are just a general word that countries use when they mean to punish other countries . An example is when Obama sanctioned Russia by expelling all of their diplomats from the US . But it can also be economic sanctions which put some sort of economic restrictions on business or products going to or coming from Russia .
Here 's how this theory goes . If a society gets advanced enough they would eventually be able to create a simulation of their universe that would be extensive enough to cover everything down to subatomic particles . Once a society gets this advanced , eventually they are going to run such a simulation , to test theories on universal evolution , or even societal evolution . Maybe even theories on sentience itself . Now , if you happen to be a sentient within such a perfect simulation , how would you know ? What test could you do that would prove that you are in a simulation ? In the same breath , how could you prove that you are not ? Simply put you could not . Additionally we are seeing that with new exotic computing materials and techniques that it appears as though there is no real limitation on how much computational power you can get in one place , then it is inevitable that someone will eventually run this simulation . Now that we know it is possible to simulate a universe such as our own we can logically agree that this means it is only a matter of time before someone does so and that it would be impossible to know if you were in a simulation or not . This leads to the final question ; is there a possibility that a species other than ours has reached this level of computational power ahead
Inflation is n't always certain , but it usually happens because countries usually try to maintain low rates of inflation for their economies . Low inflation rates are generally preferred because they encourage investment without making people 's current savings worthless . Inflation encourages investment because money sitting in a bank account loses value when there 's inflation . If money sitting in a bank loses value , people are more likely to invest it somewhere where the money can grow steadily . Deflation discourages investment because your money will increase in value by just existing . Why risk investing in anything if your money is going to become more valuable over time anyway ? Of course you do n't want to have high inflation because then people 's savings may become worthless too quickly .
Water is a food , and is regulated by the FDA . Alcohol is regulated by the BATFE , which has different rules . Actually , a lot of alcohol , particularly beer , does have date codes on it . Some are easy to read and others are not , but Budweiser even makes a big deal about their dates .
The human brain is a pattern recognition machine . Our ancestors ' survival was often predicated upon taking a look at surroundings and understanding their context quickly . This was done by being able to identify patterns . We 're just so good at it that we often see patterns where none exist , like a tiger head in a cloud .
Jews do not evangelize in the same way that Christians and Muslims do . They 're also recovering from the massive hit to their population dealt during the Holocaust - prior to the Holocaust , there were roughly nine million Jews in Europe . Two - thirds of them were killed . The six million deaths there would be almost half of today 's worldwide Jewish population of about 14 million .
It 's highly dependent on the species you 're talking about . Bumblebees , for instance , die - off during the winter and only new queens survive by hibernating and begin founding a new colony come spring . Yes , even queens of established colonies die - off . Only new queens survive . Ants hibernate 3 + feet underground where the temperature is a constant 55 - 65 degrees . Some bugs migrate , such as monarch butterflies , for the cold months . Still others simply lay their eggs either in water or underground then die off . Spring triggers hatching and development .
You know how poop smells bad to us ? ( Most of us , anyway ) That 's a typical sign that it 's bad to eat . There are no cultures that love the poop smell , as a general rule . That makes it either an instinct ingrained in us through countless generations , or all the people who hate the poop smell did n't eat poop and lived , passing on their traits . It 's the same sort of thing as bad meat , spoiled milk , and other things that can make you sick smelling terrible . All the people who loved bad meat smells died off . I realize this answer was n't really the why behind medical effects of eating fecal material , but it still answers your question from a different angle .
All you need is a brokerage account and money . There are several on - line brokers , such as URL_2 , URL_0 , URL_3 , etc . You have to open an account with one of them , which means that you have to establish a way of paying them . You can do this by providing the information about your bank account so that money can be transferred directly , or you can send them money , or go into a branch office and give them money , or probably various other ways . There 's usually a set fee for executing a trade ( a buy or sell ) , on Schwab I think it is $ 30 per trade . After that , it just depends on the stock you buy and how much you buy . But ..... if you do n't already know the stuff I wrote above , you have n't done your homework . Before you invest in the stock market , you should learn what you are doing . Otherwise , you are likely just going to piss away your money . If that 's what your goal is , PM me and I 'll send you my PayPal account info and you can just give the money to me . It will save you a lot of time and bother . I 'll put it to [ good use ] ( URL_1 ) , honest !
> Are they just not even trying to pay their taxes ? Well sometimes that 's the case . The thing is , as others have pointed out , being rich is actually quite complicated . Most rich people build up to the process , you own a local store , then you own 2 stores , then 5 , then 50 , then 500 . Or you invest in one place , then 10 then 100 or whatever . Or you just own one business and that 's it for your career . Athletes , celebrities and lottery winners all have a problem , athletes particularly because you are at a young age with no experience with money handed a fortune . You do n't know what to do with it and you do n't even know who to ask . So you try and hire accountants and lawyers and the problem is you do n't have the skills to know the good ones from the bad . Most americans ca n't do their taxes coming out of highschool for a 30k a year job , when it 's 3 million earned in lots of places with all sorts of complexity you basically hire an accountant , follow their advice and hope you do n't fuck it up . Assuming you know enough to even do that . Wesley Snipes got himself an advisor who did n't believe income tax was legal - which as you can imagine the
The push notification systems rely on some assistance from Google or Apple . Apps can register themselves to receive push notifications , which will be received by your phone 's OS and passed along to the app ( waking it up ) when received . Apple / Google provide a way for developers to give them a small push - message which they pass along to your phone .
Her daughter Caylee was reported missing by her grandma . 3 few months later Casey Anthony pled not guilty to 1st degree murder . 2 months after that , Caylee 's remains were found near the family home . The prosecution sought the death penalty , but on July 5th 2011 , she was found not guilty of murder , aggravated child abuse and aggravated manslaughter of a child . She was , however , found guilty of four misdemeanor counts of providing false information to law enforcement . She got sentenced to a year in jail and a $ 4000 fine , but with credit for good behaviour and time served , she got out less than two weeks later . TL;DR - she got away with a slap on the wrist when it seems likely that she murdered her daughter . Wiki link : URL_0
Pipers were first adopted by the British Army in the late 18th century , after officers in Highland regiments ( raised in the then populous Highlands ) brought personal pipers into service with them , and were employed in a way similar to buglers and fife - players - to play Reveille , and similar functions . It was a Highland custom for pipers to compose and play Laments for deceased figures of note such as Chiefs , Military Leaders , even Kings . Pipers employed by the Army got much favourable publicity during wars of the 19th century , and became an Institution , to the extent that a School was set up to ensure uniformity of standards . Just when this custom spread to the US Military is not clear , but I think it is fairly recent . JFK had an interest in bagpipe bands , probably picked up from his Boston Days , and had a local band in DC play at the White House . The Air Force in those days ( 1950 's -early 60 's ) had a Pipe band , modelled on the Scottish ones .
From what I 've learned : In ancient Greece and similar civilizations , the world was constantly at war . Forever engaged in battle regarding the bounds of your territory , it is unsafe to have women out at the front lines with the soldiers . This is where much of the homosexuality became widely practiced due to the fact that there were no women . Some civilizations raped and pillaged cities and towns but other leader forbade it , claiming sex with women can cloud the minds of soldiers . Alexander the Great engaged in homosexual acts with a general of his army , Hephaestion . The two eventually fell in love and after Hephaestion 's death , Alexander became extremely depressed and his will and battle command began to weaken as well as his conquests . Edit : Sorry for poor grammar . English is my second language .
My personal opinion : Music preference can be active or passive . ( Still working on improving those terms . Maybe nature vs. nurture is closer . ) There are plenty of people who want to enjoy jazz or opera , so they actively educate themselves , listen to lots of music , and overtime , develop an understanding , appreciation , and eventually love the music . I would call this an active preference . You met a girl who is really into dubstep , and you do n't get it , but you like her , so you start listening to it all the time as a way to connect . Eventually , you find things in dubstep you like , and when the girl is no longer part of the picture , you still like dubstep . Active preference . In other situations , music can be cultural , in the sense that if you are surrounded by a particular type of music , it become more than music , and part of a life experience . If that life experience was positive , you seek it out in the future . That 's one of the things music does . It connects to memory and emotion , and allows you to have a mild recall of that past experience . For example , you ca n't separate Christmas music from all of the experiences of the season . For some , that might be positive ,
In addition to what other users said , assuming there was a burial site that was found that no one had ever been to before , by the time archaeologists deal with the bureaucracy and red tape involved in even getting to the site , grave robbers / treasure hunters could easily ignore all of that , go to the site , do what they want , and leave in the same amount of time it would take the archaeologists to file a petition with the local government to allow them on the site in the first place .
A couple of things : The South China Sea is important to China because : * China wants to become more of a naval power because it sees itself as being contained by the US running along a line from S. Korea to Taiwan to the Philippines . China 's commercial and geopolitical interests point toward a more active navy . * China resents America 's primacy in the Western Pacific . China would like to see the Western Pacific run according to Chinese interests or , at least , to have a greater degree of influence . * China has a strong disincentive to back down regarding " historic " claims such as these as Chinese sovereignty is an extremely important issue to the Chinese people who saw their country carved up by outside powers from roughly 1850 - 1950 . It 's the same reason China insists that Taiwan not be formally independent . > Is it worth it to them to get into a war with the US over these islands ? * There is a middle ground between war and accepting Chinese spurious claims that overlap with the territories belonging to China 's neighbors ( which are theirs according to the globally accepted standards of the UN law of the sea ) . In fact , simply accepting Chinese demands with no pushback would arguably make war more likely as China would see itself as having a free hand to push the envelope further , which
You do n't pass out from locking your knees too long . If your standing for a while like in a military formation , or in my case being in choirs , they say not to lock your knees in case you pass out . That way if you pass out , you drop straight down and do n't fall over like a tree , hurting your self more and possibly knocking down others .
If you want a genuine answer to this question , I would check over with the folk at /r / NoFap Despite what people are saying in here : " conditioned by society " , " Catholicism " , etc , there are actually many other reasons why you would not want to masturbate . It could actually just be a form of self - control and concentration . Some believe it also betters personal relationships and changes you fundamentally in other ways ( by giving you more desire or energy ) .
Good question . The NBA expanded into Canada to try to loosen the popularity grip Hockey has over the country ; but it was not aware that the NHL had a solid working operation . MLB did the same when they created the Montreal Expos and Toronto Bluejays . It turns out that Canadians really do love their hockey and as a result one of the two expanded NBA franchises moved from Vancouver to Memphis , hence the Memphis Grizzlies ( how many goddamn grizzlies are there in Memphis ? NONE ! ) .
This article explains it well " URL_0 " The purpose of tickling is for parents to train their children in a safe way how to protect vital areas of the body . We are ticklish in areas that are sensitive and vulnerable to attacks , under the arms , in the neck ribs etc . The response is for the body to crumple in around that zone and insulate it from contact . This has a great evolutionary advantage of conditioning humans ( and probably all mammals ) to protect their vital organs and vulnerable arteries by shielding them from an attack . It is done through tickling usually by a trusted guardian . This has the distinct advantage of conditioning the child to exhibit the protective behaviour with minimal risk yet a solid feedback mechanism and negative reinforcement for failure to do so . It also reinforces the trust relationship with the guardian as it can being tickled can be an enjoyable experience if done in moderation and like all trust relationships can be easily turned malicious if exploited .
I 'm by no means an expert , but I would say when it no longer becomes logical . Everyone at some point in there lives goes through bouts of depression . The kind of depression that is brought about by an event that afflicts us . Clinical depression however can seem to have no particular reason . They are depressed just because . Everything in their lives might point to a happiness but it does n't matter .
> it 's my body and mind That 's why a lot of people describe suicide as selfish . Many people see those who attempt suicide as only being able to think about themselves . They focus on * their * pain . They focus on how other people treat * them . * They focus on why * they * are hurt . Do you have a sibling ? A close cousin ? A friend ? A parent ? Stop and think about those people for a minute . What if one of them killed themselves ? I know it 's morbid , but how would you feel if your dad came into your room , sat you down , and told you your sibling just killed himself / herself ? Would you be able to simply dismiss / accept it as " Well , it was her body and mind . " More likely , you 'd have a hard time dealing with it and would torture yourself with what your sibling 's last moments must of been like , and wondering if you could have done something to prevent what happened . It really screws up people when their loved ones kill themselves . They 're never the same . My brother lost one of his best friends to suicide . It changes people .
I recommend avoiding trading directly in commodities futures and options. If you're not prepared to learn a lot about how futures markets and trading works, it will be an experience fraught with pitfalls and lost money – and I am speaking from experience. Looking at stock-exchange listed products is a reasonable approach for an individual investor desiring added diversification for their portfolio. Still, exercise caution and know what you're buying. It's easy to access many commodity-based exchange-traded funds (ETFs) on North American stock exchanges. If you already have low-cost access to U.S. markets, consider this option – but be mindful of currency conversion costs, etc. Yet, there is also a European-based company, ETF Securities, headquartered in Jersey, Channel Islands, which offers many exchange-traded funds on European exchanges such as London and Frankfurt. ETF Securities started in 2003 by first offering a gold commodity exchange-traded fund. I also found the following: London Stock Exchange: Frequently Asked Questions about ETCs. The LSE ETC FAQ specifically mentions "ETF Securities" by name, and addresses questions such as how/where they are regulated, what happens to investments if "ETF Securities" were to go bankrupt, etc. I hope this helps, but please, do your own due diligence.
1 ) What the NSA is doing was not done by Obama personally , and was not started by any of Obama 's directives . The NSA has been at work since the 50s and their expanded power that had them doing what they are currently in the news for were project started by Bush 2 not Obama . 2 ) Nixon spied for political gain , then lied about it . He like Clinton mostly got in trouble legally for lying about it . 3 ) And Nixon was not forced to resign . He chose to resign rather than to be impeached . There was political pressure for him to do so , but he was not required to do so .
Well .... there are a few reasons : * There is no oil * The protestor were n't able to get a critical mass in Damascus and Aleppo * There is no unified opposition able to rule the contry in a post Assad Scénario * Religious and Ethnic division makes the region a ticking bomb * The upper society ( or " Bourgeoisie " ) always critical in such revolution is still supporting their president * Libya cruisade was and is a total failure * Military support from Russia ( last russian port in the mediteraneen is in Syria ) * Economical support from China * Syria absorbed many Iraqi refugees and many fear Chaos * Assad has still A LOT of support inside
A paradox is an impossible situation . More specifically a paradox is a seemingly reasonable statement that leads to an impossible conclusion . Often times this conclusion is a lack thereof due to a circular logic . The most simple one is the statement " This statement is false " . If the statement is false , then it is true . If it is true , then it is false . Imagine a man goes back in time and kills his grandfather before the grandfather meets his grandmother . By killing his grandfather , the man causes his father to not be born which means the men is not born and can not go back in time to kill his grandfather . If he ca n't go back in time to kill his grandfather , then his grandfather lives and the man eventually is born and goes back in time to kill his grandfather . This is a classic example known as " The Grandfather Paradox " Several deal with the idea of an omnipotent , omniscient , morally perfect God . * Free Will- if God is all knowing and knows what we will decide , then we are n't actually deciding anything because it is already known and therefore predetermined . * Can God create a stone so heavy he can not lift it ? If he ca n't create a stone he ca n't lift , then it shows he is limited in what he can
ALS is n't a single disease . There are many distinct * types * of ALS . They do n't all progress in the same way , and even the same type of ALS can vary in its progression from individual to individual . Hawking has a childhood - onset type of ALS . Childhood - onset ALS types tend to be slower progressing than adult - onset ALS types . His particular type of childhood - onset ALS is rare , and progresses even slower than most others . Combine that with * excellent * care throughout his life , and you 've got your answer . Now , * why * are some types of ALS slower in their progression than others ? Nobody has any flipping clue .
Because their legal teams shit their pants every time a product is mentioned which they do nt have explicit permission to use . They ' could ' use google . And it could have no problems what - so - ever . But just as an arse cover , they use fake ones to avoid any risk of legal action . Here is an example . A show uses Google perfectly innocently . 2 years later the lead in the show is convicted for dealing drugs . Google could now , in theory , sue the TV company for linking their corporate image to a drug dealer and seek damages . Its legally easier to just not involve them . Also , another reason is licensing . They might approach Google and say ' hey guys , we will show your search engine in our new TV show if you give us $ 50k as we are advertising your stuff ' . Google could say no , in which case they do nt want to give them a freebie so use a fake one instead .
The drafting and ratification of the US Constitution was a hotly controversial subject resulting in lots of compromise . For fear of the US ( or any government , really ) devolving into Tyranny , certain representatives wanted assurances , explicit limitations on government power . Many people proposed many such limitations , which James Madison patiently codified into 12 amendments , 10 of which were accepted with the Constitution and became what was known as the Bill of Rights . This was not without debate either . Critics of the Bill of Rights argued that it was n't necessary to explicitly limit the government because the government could only do the things it was explicitly permitted to do in the main body of the Constitution . That is , if the main body of the Constitution does n't say the government can establish a religion , then we do n't need an amendment saying it * ca n't * establish a religion . Furthermore , if you jot down explicit things the government ca n't do , people might infer that , if it was n't included as a limitation , then the Government is allowed to do it . That is , by including these limitations you might have the opposite affect and empower the government to do things it was never intended to do ! In comes the 9th Amendment . It is a bulwark against that implication . Basically it is a reiteration of the basic
Few years working a company chain - Deli counter , simple answer is that is bacteria that is forming on the meat . Indicating that is indeed spoiling . Why you may be encountering that is . Meat generally lasts a little more than a few days . 5 I 'd say is a good average . Sliming can occur earlier if 1 . ) Bad refrigeration on either you or the Deli when they sliced it . 2 . ) The Deli may of used an already opened , day or few old piece of meat . Yes , Delis use few day old meat . It 's not uncommon in the slightest at chain Delis . 3 . ) The product itself is bad . Factories out there nowadays are using cheaper , more disgusting fillers to sell their product . Avoid the obviously super cheap products . You get what you pay for . ( usually ) . My own store has brands that are slimey the moment you open the bag . How to help avoid this : 1 . ) Ask to see the piece of meat , so that you may inspect it / try it yourself . Most obvious way is the smell . If you can smell a pungent stank from your side of the counter , avoid it or ask for a new one to be opened . ( Be warned , depending on your relations with the workers , asking
The most common issue is the photo . Since the passport is meant to be an important means of photo ID , it 's important that the photo looks kind of like you . My passport is currently 8 or 9 years old and I still look mostly like I did when I got it , but that may not be true in 10\-20 more years . So re\-issuing and taking a new photograph makes for a more accurate ID . But the other issue is security . Much like with drivers ' licenses , passport fraud does happen . If a passport with no expiration date is stolen and used fraudulently , it could potentially be used forever . But if it has an expiry date , it 'll cease to be useful within a few years . Especially since the security features and images in the passports do get updated once in a while . An out\-of\-date passport stands out , making it harder to use fraudulently .
Say a car is driving in a circle , centripetal force is the force generated by the wheels towards the center , this makes the car go in a circle . And the force that you feel like it 's pushing you out of the car is centrifugal . Another example for centrifugal could be the gravity of the sun , which makes the earth orbit it . Hopefully my explanation makes sense to you :D
The long and short of it would be because of Fidel and Raúl Castro . Before the Castros , there was trade and travel between the two nations . Then Cuba had a revolution , bringing the Castros to power . When the Castros came to power , they implemented numerous policies that negatively affected US businesses . This resulted in relations deteriorating very quickly , and so Cuba started to do more business with the USSR to compensate for the loss of business with the US . The USSR saw Cuba as a strategic opportunity should the Cold War escalate into direct armed conflict . The US cried foul . Should the Soviets attack from Cuba , they could hit major US targets so quickly that the US would not be able to react . That pretty much killed all relations between the US and Cuba for a while . Between 1962 and 1980 , relations slowly became better with some mishaps along the way . Enter : Reagan . He instituted policies effectively tightening up trade and travel to the point of non - existence . Then , the Cold War ended . So why is there still limited - to - no trade and travel ? Today , the main reason for failed economic relations is largely because of Cuban immigrants who have fled Cuba . They have a huge impact over the politics in Florida , and Florida is a state with enough leverage to affect
First , the whole " getting thrown into the air " thing is just a Hollywood stunt effect . You 're not actually going to be lifted off your feet more than a couple of inches unless the explosion is underneath you . The primary way an explosion will kill you is the shockwave . A wall of compressed air comes racing away from the explosion at high speed . When this shock wave hits your body it 's going to damage your internal organs . Secondarily , you can be hit with shrapnel and debris . For example , grenades do n't generally kill with the explosion itself . The metal shards around the explosive fly off in all directions and will kill you that way .
Resistance in a material opposes the flow of electricity and electrical energy is required to push through the resistor . This energy is dissipated as heat . Sometimes we purposefully make things resist the electrical current so they get hot , like in a space heater . However , pretty much every material has some electrical resistance , which means you always end up losing some electrical energy as heat energy . For example , CPUs get hot when they use a bunch of electricity and CPUs are designed to minimize heat production when possible . Superconductors can transmit electricity without resistance , but they are hard to make and require really , really cold temperatures . There are other ways to convert electrical energy to other types of energy ( like kinetic ) , but heat is the main inefficiency in modern electronics .
The path through the maze divides the maze in half . Even if the path is complicated , you can imagine the maze like two connected puzzle peices , where the path through the maze is where the two puzzle peices meet . If you disconnect the two puzzle peices , you can follow the " edge " left by the path through the maze with either your left hand or your right hand , depending on which puzzle peice you 've got . [ Here 's ] ( URL_0 ) a colorized maze to demonstrate how the path through the maze divides the maze in half . You can actually solve any mze in mspaint by using the " bucket " tool to color a wall of the maze : the maze will divide in half like in this image because the path through the maze splits the puzzle into two disjoin sections of wall , so one section will be unaffected by the bucket tool while the other will be colored . EDIT : Just thought of a great analogy : if you 're having trouble picturing why the " puzzle piece " thing is true , imagine this : the start and end paths of your maze are on the outer edges of the paper , and instead of using a pencil to draw the path , you use an exacto knife . When you reach the end , you will have divided the paper in half
Both are the same temperature . But when air is moving faster , it feels^1 colder . 1 . Fast - moving air usually^2 feels colder because it carries heat away from you faster . 2 . Unless the fast - moving air is hotter than you , in which case it feels hotter^3 , because it transfers heat to you faster . 3 . If you do n't believe me , wave your hand around inside a hot oven . Feels hotter , right ?
This has much to do with evolution . Quite simply , consider how dangerous deciding to fall asleep could have been before modern society emerged a few thousand years ago . Let 's say you were really tired , and you thought things were safe , and decided to sleep . You would sleep more often , thus increasing the chance for danger . So sleep was put largely outside the range of one 's control to enhance survival . The absence of light outside , combined with a safe place to sleep ( minimized danger of a predator attacking ) were the major components of successful sleeping . Unfortunately , evolution takes time , so we do not yet have the ability to go to sleep on command , even though it would be safe for us to do so today .
He did n't . Khalid Sheikh Mohammed did . But the tl;dr version is that OBL wanted to restore an Islamic Caliphate that spans across the Middle East , Africa all the way to Indonesia . He was doing it as a call to arms to Muslims everywhere . I am sure someone can give better details that I have here .
Internet service providers could charge you , companies or both higher fees to retain the same service and they also gain the ability to censor as they see fit as they could simply strange connections to websites they do n't want to have traffic . Internet access could become more subscription based . You 'd have your ' base internet ' access , but for only $ 19,99 you could subscribe to the Social Media Package ™ and have unrestricted access to Twitter , Facebook etc . Alternatively those sites would pay the ISP to give users access to their websites . If you like videos , for an additional fee you could also subscribe to the YouTube Package ™ - you get the idea .
I think that that statement is trying to communicate is that every news organization has an angle in their reporting . It may be selling more papers for the business , pushing a political viewpoint , bringing attention to certain types of crimes , or nearly anything . Even what a news organization chooses to report on and ignore is significant , and a direct choice . The point is , if you get your news from multiple sources , you 're much more likely to hear different sides of the story , and to have gaps in coverage filled in .
Those people are repeating misinformation . Microwaving does not take nutrients away . Cooking does destroy some nutrients . basically you can think of most of what 's in food as lots of different shapes of molecules- chains , cubes , and so on . When you heat these shapes up , they can some times break , either losing their shape or actually breaking in to smaller pieces . This is an important part of cooking , as this is what makes the food cooked(eg , this is what turns raw beef in to a tasty browned steak ) . However , the parts that break can be useful nutrients that are no longer as useful once broken . That said , cooking usually makes it easier for your body to break down the food once you eat it , and that can actually improve the amount of nutrients that you get from the food .
It 's about the specificity of the scent and personal reference . A stick of cinnamon is going to smell like any other stick of cinnamon ( within a tight set of standards ) no matter where is came from . But I promise if you grew up in the Med vs the west coast US vs the great lakes , vs anything , you 're going to think the " Coastal waters " smell is very different . Plus they 're going to leave out any offensive or pungent parts of the experience ... ocean breeze , they 're going to leave out the rotting fish / plant matter smell and that changes the smell from your reference point .
Double sharps and flats raise / lower a pitch by two half steps instead of just one . Say you are in the key of g flat . If you wanted to lower your d flat yet another half step , you would put a double flat instead of a c natural . This would be useful if the next note is a c flat , for example . This makes it easier for the musician to read because it is easier to think in all flats than in both flats and sharps . If you put a c natural instead of a d double flat , you might run into weird problems when transposing for other instruments like clarinet or horn .
12AX7 and 6v6 tubes driving an amp with lots of big leaky capacitors which then drove speakers that were not made for guitar amps . All that circuitry was hand made , hand soldered . When it was all put together in a a cabinet at that time , it " sang " .. Harmonics and distortion from the tubes added colour to a guitar . They also had spring reverb ( the best in my opinion ) built into the back of the cabinet which added so much presence to the sound . The tremolo knob ... A great amp is almost sentient ... It breathes , it whines , it 's noisy , but God , it rocks . It 's the other half of your guitar playing hand . If a old amp was an animal , it would be a dog . Reliable , true , growling and making you look good with the ladies ... Well , that 's my opinion anyway ( ex owner of a 1956 fender bassman )
Free radicals are high energy ions usually formed through photochemistry . Basically sunlight hits particles and breaks them up ( usually ozone into oxygen and an oxygen radical ) . Free radicals are typically carcinogenic , they can cause skin cancer and bad things if you inhale them . They mostly occur in the upper atmosphere ( that s what the ozone layer is for ) . And there is n’t a ton you can do about them other than stay in the shade and wear sunscreen . They are nt instantly ( acutely ) poisonous or anything like that , just long term exposure is bad .
Its only considered infallible among people who buy into the ideology that it is infallible ( which is a not inconsiderable number ) . It , of course , has some good things in it and it is better than some of the systems other countries use . But if you are a rational human being , then you know that this just represents a reasonable effort from people from more than 200 years ago . " Slaves " being 3/5th of a person ( rather than being outlawed ) and not encoding universal suffrage are obvious problems . So , objectively , it is not infallible . It only seems that way to people who , for whatever reason , just assert that it is .
They actually can get kinked off from bending but you probably would n't notice it that 's to collateral circulation . Your body is designed in such a way that major vessels are in areas that do n't bend enough to get kinked off ( femoral , carotid ) and at the places they could get kinked off there are alternative paths that most likely would not be kind at the same time .
First off , hope your hangover gets better . Now , on to the explanation . When you drink alcohol , a good portion of it ( 15 % or more ) is absorbed directly through your stomach wall into your bloodstream and starts to affect you brain . The rest of it hits a few minutes later , when it passes through your small intestine , like carbs or protein or any other nutrient . Alcohol in your blood will affect your brain ( you 'll feel this as being tipsy / drunk ) , but it 's also toxic . It 's not going to kill you immediately , but in high enough quantities it can cause alcohol poisoning , which is why your body wants to get rid of it . That 's where your liver comes in . It breaks down the alcohol molecules in a few steps into molecules that your body can use for energy ( if you 're curious , it looks like this : alcohol -- > acetaldehyde -- > acetic acid -- > acetyl - CoA ) . That stuff - the acetyl - CoA - can be used for energy , so it then goes to your cells and is used for fuel . That 's what happens to alcohol in your system . Hangovers merit their own explanaition . Hangovers have a few different causes ( and we are n't exactly sure about all of them ) but the
* On a record , a * * " deep cut " * * is a song judged to be less commercial or radio - friendly . ( A ' cut ' is a slang term for a song or track - the word comes from the groove in the record . It is ' deep ' because it typically might appear deep within the album , instead of at the beginning - though of course this can vary ) Almost none of the songs you hear on conventional radio are deep cuts . * It is contrasted with a * * " single , " * * a word that refers to both a * song * judged to be more commercial or radio - friendly , and also the * physical one - song record or CD * it is released on . Almost all of the songs you hear on conventional radio are singles . * Because a physical single record has two sides , the second side also has a bonus song on it , called a * * " B - Side . " * * A B - side might be a very commercial song as well , or it might be much less commercial ; it just depends on the band and the record label .
When you arrange two magnets in such a way that they push each other in the opposite directions , you use at least as much energy to make this arrangement as is released when the magnets give you the push . If you do n't believe me , feel free to try to find a way to bring the opposite ends of two magnets close to each other without using any force .
J - Approaching the answer from the W4 perspective (for calculation purposes) may be more trouble that it's worth. I'd strongly suggest you use tax software, whether it's the 2016 SW or a current year one, on line, to get an estimate of your total tax bill for the year. You can then look at your current run rate of tax paid in to see if you are on track. If you have a large shortfall, you can easily adjust your withholdings. If you are on track to get a large refund, make the adjustment so next year will track better. Note, a withholding allowance is equal to a personal exemption. Some think that "4" means 4 people in the house, but it actually means "don't tax 4 x $4050" as I have $16200 in combined people or tax deductions.
The main purpose of CAPTCHA is to distinguish human from a machine as the text is written in a way that it is hard for a machin to " read " this text . Some CAPTCHA are more effective than others but good CAPTCHA are really good at their jobs . Some CAPTCHA sevices may serve another purpose . For example , [ reCAPTCHA ] ( URL_0 ) ( Google CAPTCHA service ) uses the text written by the user to digitize books . Sometimes , their OCR does its job poorly so they need humans to tell which word it is . Rather than paying people doing this digitizing ( which would be quite a boring job ) , they use the answer of people in reCAPTCHA . So when " resolving " a reCAPTCHA , you 're helping the humanity ! Congratulations .
A currency is worth what people decide it is worth . A dollar is just as universal as a euro in the fact that both are worth what people value them to be worth . The only way to have a truely universal currency would be to outlaw all currencys besides one , which as mentioned below , takes a very powerful all world government .
Another thing is thanks to World War II most of Europe had its infrastructure destroyed and subsequently rebuilt . The US never had that problem so they still have some really old infrastructure in many parts of the country . Tearing down an old but working infrastructure is harder to do and more expensive than just rebuilding it from the ground up .
Accounting is the standardized documentation and analysis of balances and transactions . Finance is the study of profit optimization . Economics is the study of allocation of resources . You need accounting and econ for finance , plus finance . You need to know accounting for accounting . And you need to know history philosophy stats political science and sociology for economics . Economics is the softest and most social science of the bunch , called the dismal science . An accountant can live his whole life only knowing accounting practices . The best people in finance are the ones who see it all . The best people in economics wear bowties and have rich parents that got them into Harvard and then the government . This is all my own thoughts and over simplified . I accept that someone will disagree .
It´s basically dependent on which other states recognize you as one ( or not ) . If only a country like Zimbabwe recognizes you as a state ( or the opposite ) , big deal . When the USA , Russia , China , the EU , the United Nations et allum say you are a state , you have a decent chance .
In the modern society , a lot of dialect becomes a result of broader influences than just your immediate geographical surroundings . Television has standardized quite a few American dialects . Most Americans watch network television which tends to use fairly standard dialects depending on their characters . The standard media dialect , the type of dialect that people often refer to as " not having an accent " is very much reinforced in formal broadcasts like news programs . This dialect is prevalent in the the midwest and west coast anyway , so there 's a lot of it around . Entertainment television and movies default to this dialect , too , but they 'll have characters that they want to express a different regional identity , so they 'll cast someone who has or can imitate a regional dialect , like for the movie " The Departed " where several of the actors had Boston accents ( some more successfully than others ) . If you wanted to cast some one for a character that 's from the south , you 'd likely have them use a southern accent , etc . [ edit ] and to answer you question in regards to urban areas , they 're the places that usually experience the most influence from television / movies / social media and which have the biggest mix of dialects , so someone living / growing up in an urban environment is more likely to end up
It started as a travel guide for motorists , which makes sense in that Michelin wanted to encourage motor travel ( to sell more tires ) . As it matured , the reviews got better and better and people began to trust it as an authoritative guide to what was good and bad . Restaurants care because consumers care . I make a point of going to Michelin star restaurants when I travel ; I want to eat there because its some of the best food in an area . As such , they can charge more per head than a normal restaurant simply because so many people feel like I do . There are many other rating programs . The Automobile Association , for example , gives out 1 - 5 rosettes based on quality .
To touch on what the periodontist said , if one is using proper brushing techniques , it wo n't matter [ too much ] , but there is still a difference . The short answer : sugar all at once is better . Your internal organs wo n't like it , but it 's better for your teeth . The long answer : Sugar , and the by products bacteria in your mouth produce from breaking it down , are acidic . The acid itself , while not beneficial , is n't the only cause of tooth decay in this instance . When your mouth 's PH is out of whack , this affects the rate of production and the effectiveness of the saliva your mouth produces . Why is this important ? Your saliva has something in it called hydroxyaptite that contains phosphate and calcium ions . The concentrations of these ions act as a buffer against tooth decay , but only when their presence in your saliva is at a high enough concentration . Guess what happens the more acidic your mouth becomes ? Its ability to hold hydroxyaptite decreases dramatically , leaving your mouth more vulnerable . So yes , sugar all at once is better . If you buy a Big Gulp soda and sip it over the course of three hours , you 're maintaining a low low PH in your mouth which will dramatically lower your saliva 's ability to fight tooth decay —
I think this phrase originates from when it was common to have an assumable mortgage. In that case, you would "take over payments" and the loan would become yours. From Investopedia: Assumable Mortgage: A type of financing arrangement in which the outstanding mortgage and its terms can be transferred from the current owner to a buyer. By assuming the previous owner's remaining debt, the buyer can avoid having to obtain his or her own mortgage.
I 've heard there is some kind of message which would be broadcasted in every channel if the US government is destroyed by something and instructs some information . Here where I live , every channel gets this message on the upper side of the screen ( like some news channels have on their screen on the bottom ) and it holds some kind of message which informs some major problem in some town . It also sends some kind of morse code at the same time and lowers the volume of the show you 're watching . Its happened a few times , like some gas leak in some town and it instructed for people to be indoors and shut all the windows .
Wyoming is a good state for this. It is inexpensive and annual compliance is minimal. Although Delaware has the best advertising campaign, so people know about it, the reality is that there are over 50 states/jurisdictions in the United States with their own competitive incorporation laws to attract investment (as well as their own legislative bodies that change those laws), so you just have to read the laws to find a state that is favorable for you. What I mean is that whatever Delaware does to get in the news about its easy business laws, has been mimicked and done even better by other states by this point in time. And regarding Delaware's Chancery Court, all other states in the union can also lean on Delaware case law, so this perk is not unique to Delaware. Wyoming is cheaper than Delaware for nominal presence in the United States, requires less information then Delaware, and is also tax free. A "registered agent" can get you set up and you can find one to help you with the address dilemma. This should only cost $99 - $200 over the state fees. An LLC does not need to have an address in the United States, but many registered agents will let you use their address, just ask. Many kinds of businesses still require a bank account for domestic and global trade. Many don't require any financial intermediary any more to receive payments. But if you do need this, then opening a bank account
Because the slug dies from dehydration . A slightly more elaborate version : Their skin is a semi - permeable membrane that allows water to pass through . The solution on both sides of the membrane want to have the same saltiness ( or , in more accurate words , the sides have to be isotonic ) . The salt on the outside makes the outside saltier ; so the water passes out to equalize saltiness . This passing continue until both sides have the same saltiness . But , since there 's a lot of salt , the water inside the slug is n't enough , so it dries ( and dies ) . This whole process ( except where the slug dies ) is called [ osmosis ] ( URL_0 ) .
An image sensor or imager is a sensor that detects and conveys information used to make an image. It does so by converting the variable attenuation of light waves (as they pass through or reflect off objects) into signals, small bursts of current that convey the information. The waves can be light or other electromagnetic radiation. Image sensors are used in electronic imaging devices of both analog and digital types, which include digital cameras, camera modules, camera phones, optical mouse devices, medical imaging equipment, night vision equipment such as thermal imaging devices, radar, sonar, and others. As technology changes, electronic and digital imaging tends to replace chemical and analog imaging. The two main types of electronic image sensors are the charge-coupled device (CCD) and the active-pixel sensor (CMOS sensor). Both CCD and CMOS sensors are based on metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) technology, with CCDs based on MOS capacitors and CMOS sensors based on MOSFET (MOS field-effect transistor) amplifiers. Analog sensors for invisible radiation tend to involve vacuum tubes of various kinds, while digital sensors include flat-panel detectors.
I 'm sure some people with patents would like that , but patents are first and foremost a way for * the public to buy inventions * , or rather information about the way inventions work . To get a patent , you have to tell the world how your invention works , and in exchange you get a limited time to be the only one who can market it ( or you can license others to use it ) . After that time , the patented invention is in the public domain , free for anyone to make , use and sell .
URL_0 An object in geostationary orbit will always be above the same point on Earth , 24/7 , but it 's still moving in a sense . It just happens to be orbiting the Earth at exactly the same speed the Earth rotates . If you tried to make an object that is currently orbiting slow down and stop moving , it would just fall to Earth due to gravity . You could theoretically have it constantly fire rockets downward to keep it at the same distance from the Earth , but then it would still be moving along with the Earth in orbit around the sun . If you figured out some way to make an object be perfectly still relative to the sun , it would still be moving along with the sun relative to other stars in our galaxy .
There was a network of transit routes people from West Berlin could use to go to nearby countries , and back to West Germany . Leaving those roads was forbidden , and you needed a visa to get in or out . There was also a few railroads with interzonal trains , which would go straight through Eastern Germany , though never stopped ( except for border controls ) . At one point , those were blocked due to an economic dispute . This led to a massive airlift operation , delivering 4700 tons of supplies per day , with almost 200 000 flights per day . Total cost of the operation is estimated to be between 2 to 5 billion , and 25 planes crashed .
My theory . If you have 200 or so friends and you look at most recent posts on your wall , typically you would just read down the page until the last post you remember reading from the last time you logged in to facebook and then you would quit Facebook . If you login a few times a day , it might only be 5 or 10 posts you would see as new , have a quick look at and then logout . But Facebook want you to spend longer scanning your wall so they can insert more sponsored posts in there . Therefore they order by top stories or most recently commented on so you might see the same story again and again and you have to scroll down quite a way to figure out if you have all the newish stuff . This keeps you on the page longer , makes you see more ads / sponsored posts and makes them more money . Just a theory ! !
set up a US company (WY is cheap and easy), go south and open a personal and business bank account, ask for the itin form. file for the itin. set up your EIN for the company. get a credit card for both. pay some mail forwarding service with it. file for taxes in the next year using your itin. prepaid cards do not link to your tax id
Bird 's excrement is actually a combination of their " urine " and feces . Birds do n't " pee " like mammals , they excrete all waste from the same orifice called a " cloaca , " which is like a fancy butthole . The white junk is nitrogen and urea and other stuff that would normally be excreted in urine in other animals .
I think if you look at demographics you can see why a majority of political comedians are left wing . Urban areas are more left than rural areas . Many comedians come from a background in acting . It 's pretty challenging to go through drama school and work as an actor will being overly conservative as you 're interacting with a lot of people who are gay . So you 're more likely to be socially liberal . It 's a lot easier to over exaggerate conservative policies in my opinion . Joking about the absurdity of building a giant wall is easy . Joking about the silliness of providing poor people a better living is kind of not funny .
Limit orders allow the buyer to specify a price limit that they 'll buy below or sell above . Market orders take the prices offered by the market to ensure that the desired number of shares are purchased . OTC stocks are generally quite illiquid so even a relatively small order can dramatically move prices . If a listed stock last trading at $ 10 it 's highly likely that the bid ask spread is within about a dime of that and there 's 10,000 or so shares that could be purchased at either the bid or the ask price ( so a market order for 500 shares will entail purchasing at $ 10.05 or something ) . With an OTC stock trading at $ 10 , the bid / ask spread can be large , and they likely only cover 100 ( or possibly fewer shares ) . A market order to buy 500 shares might result in the price going to $ 12 or 14 per share . Edit : You can see the arrangement off offers with something like Nasdaq level 2 quotes . The rule is in place because they do n't want to suprise you when the price moves after you place your order .
That 's a great question , actually . It is incredibly viable but unfortunately politically unrealistic for now . To understand nuclear waste , you need to understand how nuclear power works . The tl;dr version is that nuclear waste is the left over radioactive material after it is ' burned up ' as fuel in a nuclear reactor . We ca n't get rid of it because these elements have EXTREMELY long half lives , or in other words they wo n't decay into less harmful materials for thousands of years . So we bury it in mountains , or chain it to the bottom of the ocean , etc . The matter of reprocessing it is actually a pretty active field right now . Thorium reactors have fluid constantly running through them to keep them cool and help to keep them self - regulating which makes it magnitudes safer than traditional reactors . The spent up nuclear waste from other reactors can basically be dumped into these and burned up with the rest of it . The only problem with thorium reactors is they do n't exist yet ... pretty much as a result of lack of funding / interest from the large purses of the world . Bill Gates in particular has done a lot to donate towards research .
First of all , I 'm not an authoritative source . Even if there is gas in the ground , it has a certain cost to get to it , it has all kinds of economic and geological reasons . So let 's say that gas costs 5 in the world market . You have some gas , but the geological situation is so bad that if you tried to produce that , it would cost 6 . Noone would buy that , so you wait and leave it there . As there are less gas sources in the world , the price will start to rise . Let 's say it gets to 6 . So now you start producing your own gas because it just became profitable for you . It will not decrease the price , because that was n't profitable before . But it will help sustain the price , until the new sources run out as well .
To expand on this , there are three phases of the gait cycle : swing phase , support phase , and double support phase . Balance in gait is not primarily based the support / double phase , but with synchronous movement from the upper extremities and lower extremities , from left and right , etc in order to keep a center of gravity when propelling in a forward motion ( in which it creates momentum . Other factors in balance include brain and ear receptors ) This has to do to the maturation of motor skills in gait , thus when you you were a little child learning to walk with two feet , it was difficult to walk because you were still trying to establish balance from support and double phase . As you get older , walking becomes easier because of synchronous movement . Best example is to try running with your arms still or to your side . It is quite difficult to keep upright , and increase speed . Source : Physical Therapy undergraduate , Bachelors in Kinesiology .
Vulgar Latin uses more vocabulary that made it into modern Romance languages , and the sentence structure is often more like the modern Romance languages too . So stuff like : occasionally , you 'll see the relative pronoun ( qui quae quod ) used to mark indirect discourse instead of accusative + infinitive constructions . The pronunciation is also different , but that probably wo n't matter in your class . Most people I 've spoken to have said they found Mediaeval Latin ' easier ' than Classical Latin . And the subject matter is often more church - focused , so you 'll run into lots of new ecclesiastical vocabulary often borrowed from Greek ( eg episcopus for bishop , angelus for angel / messenger ( of God ) ) , or new meanings for old words ( eg Dominus for the Lord , God , rather than the head of a household )
You can't. Even as a technical trader you should know what events are coming up and be prepared. You can't prepare for everything but you should know when the earnings dates are. You should also pay attention to the market in general. Stocks also have personalities and you should get to know that personality. Most important thing in trading is deciding when to get out before buying and stick to it when it goes against you. It is also one of the hardest things to do.
Adding onto what thisisntnamman said , the issues of Louisiana and Massachusetts caused controversy . In MA , Ron Paul won a bunch of delegates , but Mitt Romney won the majority . All the delegates would have to vote for Mitt Romney , because he won MA , both the Romney and the Paul delegates . However , the GOP establishment did n't trust the Paul delegates to vote for Romney , so they forced the Paulites to sign two affidavits * promising * that they 'd vote for Romney , under the threat of perjury . However , many Paul delegates refused , because they technically are legally able to still vote for Ron Paul . There was no party rule mandating them to sign the affidavit . So , the GOP in MA just threw out the delegates that Paul won and replaced them with Romney delegates . In Louisiana , something similar happened . When it became apparent that Ron Paul was getting a majority of the delegates , the Romney people panicked and had the Paul delegates arrested , even though they literally did n't do anything wrong . So yeah , there 's the illusion of democracy for you . Whenever the establishment sees that it 's being threatened , it changes the rules . Ron Paul had a majority of delegates in a plurality ( defined as 5 ) states , meaning that he could speak at the RNC . But at the
I do n't have much of an answer , but my personal internal " voice " does n't have an accent . It " sounds " like my voice , except without any environmental influence and more ... even . Does that make sense ? I am a good reader tho ' , and I after a few minutes I stop hearing any sort of internal monologue at all . Especially when I 'm reading a fantasy novel or something , then I do n't really " hear " anything . It feels like I 'm " watching " a movie . It 's the same in my dreams . I do n't hear anything even tho ' it 's not silent . source : I 'm a weird one .
Languages was n't invented , they evolved gradually over time . Many animals have vocalizations , where one sound = one concept . Dog growl , bark , and whimper to communicate aggression , excitement , and fear . Human ancestors could have communicated through similar vocalizations . As brains and tongues become more advanced , so do these vocalizations . Eventually , instead of having meaning of their own , some of the sounds modified others . Instead of saying " food " , you could say things like " bad food " or " lots of food " . Combining sounds to form complex meanings is what separates language from mere vocalization . These combinations became increasing complex , until the sounds lost their independent meaning , and only could be used to form words in combination . This is analogous to how pictograms slowly transitioned into letters .
Viruses make you sick by injecting their own DNA into your cells , " overthrowing " your DNA and taking control of your cells ' facilities . They use their own genetic code to clone themselves and eventually blow up the cell they just invaded . Bacteria do n't work like that . There are too many types of bacteria to generalize how they make you sick , they all work differently . And , a virus can make bacteria " sick " too . The ones that they do are called [ Bacteriophages ] ( URL_0 )
You give your bank your money . They put it in the vault and keep track of how much they have from you . They will from time to time lend your money to other people for mortgages or student loans . Because they can use your money for other things , they will pay you a small percentage on a monthly basis . This is called interest . At any time you can go to the bank and ask for some of your money ( making a Withdrawal ) or give them more money ( making a Deposit . ) People keep money in banks because it 's secure , it 's more convenient than carrying a lot of cash , and once you get a job , you can get your employer to put your salary directly in the bank account so that you do n't have to cash a cheque every two weeks .
Nothing in particular . It 's just asserting that , at some point in the past , things were better and we need to get back to that point . What exactly is wrong & when things were " great " is largely left up to the reader . It 's not uncommon for political slogans to be highly subjective and devoid of concrete meaning . If you go back to Obama 's " Change " campaign , it was largely the same - save the nostalgic call for returning to the past .
Sex and gender are two separate things . Sex is biological and set at birth , gender is a set of social conventions , which a person can transition to and from . There is actually a difference between a " transexual " person and a " transgender " person . I have no clue if the LGBTQ community typically considers transexual people to be cis but I do n't think so . Caveat : There are some radicals that consider sex to shaped by gender . I.e. inter - sexed children are sometimes operated on to to " normalize " their gender . The argument is that thesse operations create the illusion of a binary when there 's really a gradient . So far from sex creating the imperfect idea of gender , it would actual be the social construct of gender that creates our sexes .
It 's often not the ISP 's infrastructure where the cost increases for them , but their uplink , their connection to the Internet . As they add customers , and the amount of data each customer uses goes up , they would need to build new infrastructure to their carrier , and incur additional port charges for the additional traffic . Nothing 's free .
I read a neat article about this . There 's actually a reason you think you look bad . It turns out , that a photograph is a reverse image of yourself . As opposed to a mirror , which is not . The photograph looks odd to you , because it is backwards . It 's almost impossible to notice that one side of you is just a bit different ... but when you see yourself one way for your entire life , and then see yourself in a photograph the other way , it 's a bit off - putting , is n't it ?
> Why is it so bad to be able to calculate the probability and act accordingly ? Because casinos exist to ~~steal~~ make money . In every casino game , the odds favor the house . It is a virtual certainty that if you play for any reasonable amount of time , you will lose money . What 's interesting about blackjack is that you can push your odds to around 49 % by following the " basic strategy " -- that is , perfect play considering only the cards on the table . I think that 's the highest odds of any house game . With card counting , you can push your odds * over * 50 % . And that 's all it is , really -- counting cards lets you actually win . And casinos do n't exist to let people win against them .
We 're looking " across " it . The Milky Way is shaped roughly like a disk and we 're not in the center , we 're about halfway between the center and the edge . When we look " up " or " down " there 's fewer stars between us and empty space outside the galaxy because it 's so thin . When we look towards the center , we see many more stars because it 's so wide .
Once it becomes noteworthy , you will receive an alert that your account is now eligible for monetization . I got this when one of my videos managed to go viral and reach 80 K views in a day . After setting up an Adsense account you use the Video Manager to select videos to monetize . They will feature ads , and you will collect ad revenue based on the * future * views and impressions generated by your video . If you hit at least $ 100 USD you get a check in the mail from Google .
As far as I 'm aware ( which is not very far at all ) , all things that make you feel ' good ' trigger a release of serotonin / dopamine ( eg . eating a good meal , going for a run etc ) . Drugs such as MDMA force the release of massive amounts of serotonin , hence the term ' ecstasy ' .
Public perception is * always * important . It makes selling to businesses / governments easier - if the population or demographics for a business / government are more familiar or are happier with Boeing over Airbus , its more likely that entity will go with Boeing . Companies and governments do care about that sort of thing , so by taking the time to drum up public support , you make it more likely that a particular entity will say , " yes , your company is well regarded by our customers / people / lemurs , so we are more comfortable with negotiations "
Imagine if one party won and the other party had a person in the ideal position to undermine the president from within . I know compromise sounds good , but the more likely scenario is constant bickering and sabotage . It 's bad enough with the grid lock coming from other branches of government . Also say you have die hard radicals for one party , they would quickly realize that the quickest way to put their party in the presidency would be to assassinate the current president .
These types are fires are hard to get close to . They can burn as hot as 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit and release toxic fumes . Trucks are at risk of falling into a weak spot and opening up a new source of oxygen for the fire . Airplanes do n't have the cargo capacity to drop enough retardant for the bigger hotter fires . China has gotten pretty good at [ putting out ] ( URL_0 ) the ones that are close to the surface , but the deeper ones can smolder for years and then reignite if a sinkhole opens up .
What benefit do I get from buying a share The value of any financial asset is its ability to generate cash in the future, and thus the "value" of a share is heavily influenced by the dividends it pays and the equity value. The equity value can be calculated different ways. Two common ways are to just take "book" value, meaning assets - liabilities, or you can look at the projected free cash flows of the company discounted back to the present time. Voting rights don't typically influence a share price except in hostile takeover scenarios (meaning someone buys up a lot of shares to have more influence in company decisions)
If you do n't want to click around the links , here 's what I know : It was discovered that couple of people had broken into the Watergate office complex , where the Democratic National Committee was hanging out . Nixon said nobody in the Whitehouse was involved , but then one of the checks for Nixon 's campaign was found in one of the burglar 's bank accounts . It turned out that a few of Nixon 's employees had money specifically put away for sabotaging Democratic campaigns . None of this had enough of an impact to stop Nixon from achieving a landslide victory in the next elections . The scandal part comes in after the first trials for the break - in . The burglars said that they 'd been paid off to shut up , corruption went all the way to the top and Nixon was directly involved . Not only that , but he also owed something like $ 500,000 ( ? iffy on numbers . Somebody help ) in dodged taxes . Besides all of this , there was a huge amount of tension going on . Protests against the Vietnam War ( which got really intense in 1969 ) and the Weathermen ( a branch of Students For A Democratic Society that was cool with violence and bombs ) ; Cold war tension ; etc etc . I feel like I 'm leaving something out , and I 'm genuinely sorry if
Assuming that taxes were withheld when you received the options, you would now only owe tax on the profit from the sale of the stock. The cost basis would be whatever you bought the stock for (the strike price of the options in this case), and the profit will be the total amount received from the sale minus the total cost of those shares. Since you bought the stock more than one year ago, you will get taxed at the long-term capital gains rate of 15% (unless you are in the 39.6% tax bracket, in which case the rate is 20%). As with all tax advice on this site, you need to check with a tax specialist when you actually file, but that should give you a rough indication of what your tax liability is.
Chomsky as a professional linguist was one of the founders of the " [ cognitive revolution ] ( URL_1 ) " . Following up on the ideas of [ Pāṇini ] ( URL_6 ) , in the 1970s he proposed the idea of grammar and syntax as being based on structured rules in a series of books on the subject . He identified language as resulting from innate human capabilities , specifically recursion . The innateness argument hinged on an idea called " [ poverty of stimulus ] ( URL_7 ) " . This is the observation that children learn language far in excess of their training for it ( compared to say , learning how to play piano ) . [ This put him in opposition with the behaviorist movement ] ( URL_3 ) within psychology , which asserts that all behaviors come down to specific conditioning and training for them . Chomsky leads a kind of second life , however . He is an ardent leftist opposed to any kind of government based authority systems . He can be found saying things along the lines of " states are , by their very nature , violent systems " . When he was a young child he was influenced by discussions at his Uncle 's newsstand , and wrote an essay about [ fascism in Spain at the time ] ( URL_0 ) . When an adult he was an early and vocal protester of the Vietnam war ,
A lot of the kids at school who are tall read very well , and that a lot of the short kids ca n't read at all . This does n't mean that learning to read makes you grow , though ! It just means that older you are , the taller you get , and the better you get at reading . So here height and reading are * * correlated * * -- the taller you are , the better you are at reading -- but that does n't mean one thing * causes * the other . * * Causation * * is when one thing makes another happen . For example , if you go to bed late one night , you will be tired the next day . You 'll notice that this is also an example of correlation . Examples of causation are also correlated , but not all correlation is causation . Sometimes it 's hard to figure out whether it 's correlation or causation , though . Suppose you found out that kids who get lots of sleep have better grades . Does this mean kids who do n't get enough ca n't concentrate ( causation ) , or does it mean that kids who get their work done early get more sleep * and * better grades ( correlation ) ?
It 's the phonemic sound that determines whether you use ' a ' or ' an ' , not the letter which represents the vowel sound . The ' u ' sound in umbrella is clearly different to the ' u ' sound in user . When you have a vowel sound like ' uh ' ( e.g. in umbrella ) , you use ' an ' . When you have a sound like ' yoo ' ( e.g. in user ) , you use ' a ' . This idea is further illustrated in words like herb and historic . In some regions of the world , you say herbs and historic with a noticeable ' h ' sound , so you it would be written like ' lets add a herb to the dish ' or ' what a historic event ! ' . In other regions , however , the ' h ' sound in these words is silent . In this case it would be written like ' lets add an herb to the dish ' or ' what an historic event ! ' .
It 's * barely * economically feasible , and even then , that 's only the case if you happen to be in an area where the electricity rates are relatively low . Pile on top of that the * * huge * * up - front cost of installation ( not just buying the panels , but getting them installed , wired to the grid properly , getting the necessary permits and inspections , etc ) , and it 's not the most appealing thing for a business to do unless they 're already a relatively large corporation .
It 's hard to think about at first because everyone has a CD burner now . You think " how can they make millions of these " without spending a ton of a bunch of CD burners . But CDs made in factories are actually different than CDs you burn . CDs in factories are actually full of tiny little bumps . It 's actually basically the same as an old record when you think about it . They take master copies , the originals , of the CDs , make molds of it , and use them to quickly press into CDs , similar to how you can press the PlayDoh Lid into PlayDoh and get a copy of it . So why are your CDs so smooth ? They put a thin layer of coating over the whole thing to make them more scratch resistant . If you think they 're easy to ruin now , imagine having direct access to all the little bumps that represent the 1 's and 0 's of the data stored on them ! As a side note to this , how does your CD Burner work ? If it 's just a laser , it ca n't physically press into the CD can it ? This is why you need special CDs to burn with . Instead of having bumps all over them , they 're simply a chemical compound inside of them . When you burn a CD , the
Figure that the size of the pixels can not be smaller than the wavelength of the light that they are transmitting . The shortest length of light we can see is around [ 380 nm , the longest 740 nm ] ( URL_0 ) . Do the math and with 3 color subpixels you 'll top out at around 11440 pixels per inch ( * ppi * ) * * if * * all the subpixels are the same relative size . Compare this with the iPhone 's retina display : 326 ppi Another application of extremely high resolution displays are in 4 K projectors . The Sony VPL - VW1000ES , for example , has 3x 0.74 " LCD panels with a combined resolution of 4 K ( 4096x2160 ) . If you were to look at the output of the screens directly ( but you ca n't because you would be looking directly at a 2000 lumen bulb ) you 'd see a tiny screen with around * * * 6250 * * * ppi We still have quite a ways to go on phones , TVs and computers .
Something you 'll find in common is that most flammable liquids are hydrocarbons . They 're long chains of carbon atoms with some hydrogen and oxygen thrown in , and if you break them apart you can get quite a bit of energy by turning them into CO2 and H2O. Milk and OJ have a lot of water in them which will absorb a lot of the heat so you wo n't be able to get it hot enough to combust , nor are they made of particularly energetic chemicals Once you have a liquid with a lot of potential energy , you need it to mix with the air so it can combust . Gasoline and alcohol are both " volatile " meaning they evaporate and have a small cloud of fumes floating over them . These fumes are easy to ignite and will heat the liquid to create more fumes and more fire . Oil and diesel are non - volatile , they 're too heavy to create a little cloud of vapor above them so they do n't quickly catch , but if you spray them into a fine mist they 'll burn extremely well . In short , you need a liquid with energy in it and one that evaporates well to get a highly flammable liquid .
Desalination plants require about [ 15,000kWh ] ( URL_0 ) to produce a million gallons of water . The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power provided [ 200 billion gallons ] ( URL_1 ) of water to LA in 2003 . That would be [ 3 billion kWh ] ( URL_3 ) . The average electric rate in California was [ 14.47 cents per kWh ] ( URL_3 ) in May 2014 . This would cost $ 434.1 million dollars to produce 200billion gallons of water . Or about 0.21705 cents / gallon . It is cheaper to recycle waste water than it is to desalinate water . However , [ there are 17 plants in planning stages in California . ] ( URL_2 ) EDIT : Some more numbers : Per 1 million gallons it costs 8,300 kWh to recycle waste water and it costs 14,000kWh to import water into California . [ source ] ( URL_0 )
Client sends a packet specifying what kinds of encryption it can do , server responds by picking one kind to use . Client encrypts a random number with the server 's public key and sends it . Server encrypts a random number with the client 's public key and sends it back . Then they use those random numbers to encrypt all future communication between them . One kind of attack is " man in the middle " , where a computer intercepts the packets and impersonates the client ( to the server ) and impersonates the server ( to the client ) .
Your stomach does n't separate anything . Your stomach acids react with the food you 've consumed , and should basically be neutralized by the time it enters your small intestine . Any soluable molecules , can pass the intestine barrier and enter your blood stream . I believe this is a two way street , and spent food stuffs can be brought back ( I 'm not exactly sure ) . Your poop is brown because your liver processes dead blood cells , and strips the iron from the hemoglobin , for reuse . The left over heme is thrown down the bile duct , into your intestine . This heme , at this point , is called bile pigment . Your kidneys process your blood stream , and filter liquids , like water , amonia , alcohol and whatever components your body has broken that down into , and asparagus ( IT 'S A JOKE , FOLKS ) . --- So , to answer your questions , the separation happens later , in different parts of your body , and yes , it all just mixes together in your stomach .
I think it 's that perfectionism can become a compulsion that causes one to get caught up in details at the expense of the larger picture or goal . In , say , an artistic work , perfection can never really be reached in practice , as it 's fairly subjective . You have to set a cut - off at some point where you say " this is finished " . Otherwise you 'll never ' ship ' or ' publish ' anything .
The pitcher and the catcher usually work out in advance a general strategy , so in most cases the catcher is simply * confirming * what kind of throw to expect . The pitcher will sometimes shake a signal off , which tells the catcher " no , try something else . " The pitcher makes the ultimate call , but it 's up to the catcher to offer suggestions . > Catcher : " Are we doing this ? " > Pitcher : Shakes his head " no . " > Catcher : " How about this ? " > Pitcher : " Yes . " > Now the catcher positions himself properly for the expected pitch . The catcher might also give a signal which basically says " Hey , this is n't coming from me . The pitching coach is telling us to do this pitch against this batter . " The catcher is * behind * the batter , so he is in the best position to do this secret signalling . If it were reversed , then the batter would know what to expect . When there are runners on base they sometimes use a more subtle signalling method . This is where that general strategy meeting that took place before the game comes in .
Poorly formed rivet heads , unfortunate placement of iceberg 's .. abutments for lack of a better word . The boat hit the iceberg at a angle that caused essentially a finger of ice to wedge between the plates of steel that made up the boats skin . The momentum of the boat caused the plates to come apart at the seam like a zipper or can opener . The rivet heads were not bucked properly for tensile forces , so they popped easily and contributed to the zipper - like opening .
I think ' smart ' , ' intelligence ' , ' clever ' as with any concept describing an essentially unobservable rich mental phenomena can not be completely defined in language . One person might be very smart because he has great skills of strategic planning ( Napoleon ) . One other person might be very smart due to imagination and abstract thinking ( Einstein ) . And so on , there are many different traits you can come to think of . If anything combines these traits it could possibly be the resistance to simply accept mainstream ideas and beliefs , but rather insist on understanding things on their own .
Is actually not that hard to make oxygen . They have a readily available supply of water in the form of what they bring from Earth , plus what they can save from their waste material ( and yes that includes feces ) and what the ISS can save from the humidity in the air . A bit of this water is then processed through electrolysis and separated into Hydrogen and Oxygen . I ... Do n't really know what they do with the Hydrogen after that , though , but the Oxygen is circulated through the ISS .
In the USA, you probably owe Self Employment Tax. The cutoff for tax on this is 400$. You will need to file a tax return and cover the medicaid expenses as if you were both the employer and employee. In addition, if he earns income from self-employment, he may owe Self-Employment Tax, which means paying both the employee’s and employer's share of Social Security and Medicaid taxes. The trigger for Self Employment Tax has been $400 since 1990, but the IRS may change that in the future. Also see the IRS website. So yes, you need to file your taxes. How much you will pay is determined by exactly how much your income is. If you don't file, you probably won't be audited, however you are breaking the law and should be aware of the consequences.
The United States has long said it would retaliate if anybody uses WMD 's . America will likely bomb a few specific targets because it has to back up it 's threats . The theory is that that by retaliating , other countries or groups would be less likely to use WMD 's . That 's arguable if it really is effective but shooting a few smart bombs on key targets really does n't cost that much relatively . It also would hopefully make Assad less likely to keep using chemical weapons on Syrian civilians . This is arguable too because if he gets overthrown , he loses everything and his entire family will be killed brutally . He kind of has nothing to lose and if using chemical weapons is his last hope , I think he would likely keep using them . The Obama administration repeatedly said they do n't want regime change so a war like Iraq is unlikely unless Assad gets overthrown . Nobody wants war and all America 's allies seem to want to sit this out . If Assad 's regime gets overthrown though , we do n't know what will happen . We do know there are a lot of chemical weapons there and do n't know who would have control of them . We know al - quaeda has forces fighting there . They 're funneling people from countries all over the middle east to Syria . The worse case scenario would
Blood contains iron particles , lipids ( fats ) , and several other agents that make it bind to other objects very well ( particularly natural cloth fibers like cotton ) . It 's difficult to remove , more difficult when dried , and even more difficult when it 's been dried and set with heat ( like from a clothes dryer ) . Depending on the material or surface you 're trying to clean , you can use toothpaste , salt , ammonia , hydrogen peroxide , cold water , or meat tenderizer on blood stains . I learned this because of um , situations .
Part of the infamy of absinthe was the idea that it induced hallucinations , which is something other alcoholic drinks do n't do . ( Note that some people who become alcohol dependent will experience hallucinations when they stop drinking , but that 's a different topic ) . However , it is now said that whatever distinct ingredients absinthe has , they are in too small amounts to make you hallucinate . But due to its reputation the drink was banned in some countries . Certain people will get a thrill from consuming a banned substance .
You should download Peerblock for safety . For example , lets say you download a Warner Bros ( WB ) movie . However , sometimes , WB tracks torrents , and if you download the torrent that they 're tracking , they can report it to your Internet Service Provider ( Comcast , TWC , etc ) , who then has the right to cancel your service . What Peerblock does is that it stops WB from tracking your IP through the torrent , so it has no idea who 's downloading it . As for a program to download the torrent through , I 'd recommend uTorrent .
[ FAQ ] ( URL_1 ) To sum it up : * It 's a genuinely good show * It 's made by the people who made things like the Powerpuff Girls and Foster 's Home for Imaginary Friends , which are also quality shows * The creators made it so that parents ( adults ) could watch it with their kids and not get bored , which is why adults find it entertaining * It has pop culture references ( such as The Big Lebowski a few weeks ago ) and incredible , catchy songs based on famous songs by Sondheim and from plays like The Music Man * It 's funny , it 's nice to look at , it does n't treat the audience like they 're stupid ( like Dora the Explorer does ) , and it makes you happy and optimistic about life * The community is one of the nicest and most active communities you could ever be a part of : everyone is genuinely nice ( our motto is " love and tolerate " ) and helpful , and we have many , many creative people who are constantly coming up with pony - inspired music ( usually techno / electronic ) , fanfiction based on the show ( the greatest example of which is the 600,000 - word epic Fallout : Equestria , which is one of the best stories I 've ever read in my life ) , artwork , videos
Conjecture , heard this explanation a long time ago . The tradition started before credit cards and people had to used mechanical registers and cash . If something cost an even 1 , 5 , or whatever dollars , the employees could easily pocket the cash and call it a loss . To deter from this practice , the managers priced things at a penny below , forcing them to make change . That way they can at least keep track of how many times the registered was opened on who 's shift vs sales .
Equity has several meanings . In finance , it is similar to what it is in real estate : > Assets – Liabilities In other words , it 's what the stock is worth , minus the debt associated with it . Just like how in real estate , your equity is the value of the house minus your mortgage . You could also think of this as something called the * net worth * of a stock . If the stock is bought without any debt , then the stock itself * is * equity . Equity is also one of the terms for categorizing * securities * , equity securities generally just means you have some ownership of the company or investment . A security is a contract , or written agreement , that can be traded between people at rates . For instance , stocks are a type of security . The contract for a stock states that you have some sort of ownership of the company in which you invested . The more complicated securities you might have heard of are also securities , such as bonds , derivatives , options , etc .
Football ( american ) . a game in which two opposing teams of 11 players each defend goals at opposite ends of a field having goal posts at each end , with points being scored chiefly by carrying the ball across the opponent 's goal line and by place - kicking or drop - kicking the ball over the crossbar between the opponent 's goal posts . Football ( everywhere else ) a form of football played between two teams of 11 players , in which the ball may be advanced by kicking or by bouncing it off any part of the body but the arms and hands , except in the case of the goalkeepers , who may use their hands to catch , carry , throw , or stop the ball .
Your brain reacts differently to new activity / days as opposed to routine activities . For instance that drive to work every morning , same every time nothing changes , so the information is labeled as useless by the brain and discarded . This explains why you may not fully remember driving somewhere or doing something routine . Your brain goes into auto pilot per say . Now when you do something new / exciting / different you brain takes that information and analyzes it differently . Its new information and it takes longer to process especially if its memorable . For instance this is why a 7 hour day at , lets say disney world , seems long and dragging on as opposed to a 7 hour day at work .
Keep in mind , everyone is doing something for a specific reason . At times it may look like chaos with 22 grown ass men running around trying to get the ball . But everyone has a specific duty on each action sequence ( each play or down ) . The duties of each person can vary widely from play to play . It will depend on what the down number is ( 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 ) and how much further it is to get a new set of downs ( everytime you move the ball 10 yds , you get four more downs ) , how far it is to the goal . So when you are watching , one thing to try and do is figure out WHY did a certain player do a certain thing . Each play is a well orchestrated sequence of action .
Tail lights have two modes , either off or dim ( at night ) and I AM STOPPING . People rear end each other now when there are only two options . Imagine a driver having to also think about what kind of brakes to apply , instead of simply preparing to stop outright ? Driving is an enormously complicated task that people take for granted . Much of safe and defensive driving is being able to predict other people 's movements . It 's much easier and in my opinion safer to interpret 2 brake light signals ( not braking , and braking ) than it would be to try and guess based on how intense the light is .
We know that the universe is expanding and a certain rate and we can tell which direction it is expanded towards . Understanding how we can prove this is probably futile unless you have a degree in astrophysics . However the concept is similar to tracing the origin of any projectile . If you know someone threw a ball at 90 mph and the direction in which it was thrown you can trace back it 's origin . We do the same with the universe . So we now we know the origin of the universe , along with the speed of the universe and the ' end ' of the universe we can easily calculate a time that it 's been moving and thus we get an age . Some other notes that are just some decent background : How do you get something from nothing ? Well we do n't really , we know that every time an electron is created it 's antimatter partner ( positron ) is also created . That 's like changing the equation 0=0 to -1 +1 = 0 . Nothing really changed . HOWEVER we know that 1 in 100 million times or so we created an electron without a positron . We are still looking into why this is . The Big Bang also fits into many of the formulas and theories we have created to explain the universe . So that 's good evidence that it happened . Finally the
Hi , Cognitive Science major here . A simple explanation for vision in the now is the recording or memorization of simulations from the retina that make their way throughout the brain . This firing of the neurons is equivalent to the wiring of the neurons . Like a row of dominoes that you knock down , but after they get knocked down they stand themselves uo again and are more likely to get knocked down in that path again because of the previous sequence of falling dominoes . So what causes memorization of vision for most animals is the external inputs , though uniquely to humans , as far as we know , we can " re - memorize " what the environment has already written in to the brain . So your mind 's eye is just the recording of visual memories without the external input . As are any other thoughts . Just with different sensations .
Its nice to use when you have a formula to describe an event and you want to know after a long period of time , what state it will be . To find that , we use limits . To demonstrate limits , stand before a wall . If you were to step half the distance between you and the wall and repeat this many times , you would say to me " I am touching the wall , I can not step any more " . But theoretically , this is impossible . You are always dividing the distance between you and the wall by two , and you can never divide into zero . But if you were to divide the distance by 2 and infinite number of times , the distance is so small ( by an infinite amount ) that mathematicians like to say that the distance would be zero . Thus , you reaching the wall is equivalent to the limit of dividing the distance between you and the wall by 2 . A practical application of this could be as follows : you have a plastic pool that you want to swim in , but there is a problem . Your pool has a leak ! But you really want to swim . So you decide that you are going to put in the hose and hope that the rate at which the water leaves the hose is greater than the rate at which
17 is the legal adult age in TX ( for anything including intercourse ) . The picture thing I believe falls under the federal child porn laws ( 18 & under ) . Also TX has a within 3 yrs law . Meaning if you are 19 you can have intercourse with some one 3 yrs younger than you ( 16 ) .
I have never had a lender ask my budget, only my income, savings, credit rating and value of the collateral. That's considered adequate info to estimate risk for most ordinary loans. Yes, they may want the income proven by evidence from your employer or via a copy of your tax returns. They don't care what you buy as long as there's evidence you'll make loan payments on time for the life of the loan.
The elevator algorithm (also SCAN) is a disk-scheduling algorithm to determine the motion of the disk's arm and head in servicing read and write requests. This algorithm is named after the behavior of a building elevator, where the elevator continues to travel in its current direction (up or down) until empty, stopping only to let individuals off or to pick up new individuals heading in the same direction. From an implementation perspective, the drive maintains a buffer of pending read/write requests, along with the associated cylinder number of the request, in which lower cylinder numbers generally indicate that the cylinder is closer to the spindle, and higher numbers indicate the cylinder is farther away.
HTML5 is still relatively new ( comparitively to the other languages they could have used ) . The major issue is that Iphones and Androids do not use HTML5 apps to access youtube and they are not required to , but for some reason Google has insisted that Windows phones MUST use a HTML5 app . To my understanding , MS 's intent was to go live with the youtube app they could make easily , quickly and cheaply , then slowly phase in a HTML5 app if they had to , as it is not their most feasible option . Instead of allowing them to do this , Google made Youtube cease to function with the app MS released . To me it seems like childishness on Google 's front , unless MS did something I have n't heard of to incite this kind of unnecessary embargo on windows phones .
1 . It 's a huge distance . Almost 2000 miles , or 3000 kilometers . Construction and maintenance are going to be expensive . 2 . For most of that huge distance , it 's a desert . No water . Hot temperatures . No one lives there . There are no roads . Every plant and animal that lives there will stab you , cut you , bite you , or sting you . With venom . Anyone crossing that on foot is already betting their life . People die crossing the border all the time . If a person was willing to take that kind of a risk , what 's getting over a fence ? 3 . To people from digging under , climbing over , punching through , or just plain fucking dynamiting it , you 'd have to monitor the shit out of that fence . Remember , there 's no one living there to watch the fence . Either you pay some contractor a million billion bazillion dollars to come up with a technical solution which probably wo n't work , or you send an army out there to watch the fence . You still probably need an army of people , because it 's not enough to know that people are climbing over your fence , someone has to drive out there and make the people stop . That 's not cheap . 4 . So you 've decided to pump all
When you swat a ... well , anything , your hand builds up a small layer of air in front of it . When you swat a small thing , for a brief moment , they accelerate as the air layer pushes them . By the time your hand reaches them , they are not hit as hard as you think they were hit . Now , if you take something larger than your hand , say , a friend 's face , then the air layer is not big enough to push them , and they will feel the full force of the blow . I am just trying to re - create this from memory . This was posted many months ago . EDIT : Yes , this is exactly why fly swatters have holes , to remove as much of the lair^^^^heh as possible .
Most modern commercial aircraft are pressurised from 6000 - 8000 ft ASL usually , although newer aircraft ( such as Boeing 's 787 series ) have been implementing lower cabin altitudes which can result in the passengers feeling more awake and energetic both during and after the flight . Which is why as a comparison older series aircraft cause your ears to pop more as their cabins have been pressurised to higher altitudes
In university my best friend lived in a tent and showered at the campus gym everyday . He had several lockers at the gym for his cloths and books . The tent kept just his bedding and was hidden in the woods near campus . It was an adventure of his to see if could get away with not paying rent .
" Infinite " is n't a specific size - it just means that you could keep going on and on without running out or retracing your steps . The " expansion " is basically taking ( 0 , 1 ) ( the interval of numbers between 0 and 1 ) and having it slowly get bigger ( 0 , 1.1 ) , ( 0 , 1.2 ) , ... There 's a way to do this such that points which are " neighbors " stay " neighbors " even though they 're " further away " . No one really moved ( in the sense of changing their relative positions ) though - it 's our measure of distance that changed .
Several reasons . 1 . For the most part , people on welfare use that that money food they or their children need to survive . Taking away that money would in essence be applying the death penalty to drug usage . 2 . The incidence of drug use amongst people on welfare is roughly 1/4th that of the general population . 3 . It costs more money to administer the drug test than is saved by taking away the welfare from the people that fail it .
Why are some flowers edible and others poisonous ? Why are some gases breathable and others poisonous ? Why are some liquids drinkable and others poisonous ? Do you see what I 'm getting at ? Some molds are not poisonous and can create things like cheeses or medicines . Others are poisonous . That is just the way of things .
There is a Syrian city and Turkish city [ right next to each other on the border ] ( URL_0 ) , Syria says that rebels are crossing at this point with supplies from Turkey . Syria claims to be targeting these rebels , but accidentally shooting too far across the boarder . Here 's the Syrian information minister [ explaining and apologising for the incident ] ( URL_1 ): > Syria 's Information Minister Omran Zoabi offered Damascus 's " sincere condolences to the families of the victims and to our friends the Turkish people " . > Without admitting the shelling , Mr Zoabi said : " The border with Turkey is long , illegal arms trafficking takes place along the border and armed groups move along the border . " > Syria , he said , respected the sovereignty of neighbouring countries .
Uh - oh ... sorry hun :( Physical pain caused by social rejection is a natural and evolutionary adaptation to keep homo sapiens together in a tribe . It is " bad " for humans to be ostracized from the social group , so we feel physical stress and pain to steer us back in the right direction . So ! to fix the problem , seek social situations , not necessarily romantic . Get out with your buddies , get on URL_0 , find solace in family , plan a party , whatever . Even if you feel that gutwrenching sickness and anxiety , keep in mind this is your body 's way of telling you to get back with the group .
Brief answer:It is not safe to go for party with 15 months child. Detailed answer:Hi, welcome to HCM. A 15 months child is totally dependent on the caretaker for everything. If you take the child along with you at the party, then you have to take care of the child at every moment. Children at 15 months of age have a habit of putting everything in the mouth, so you should be more cautious till the party ends. In my opinion, its not safe to take the child to the party. I hope this has helped you. Wishing your child good health. If you have any more questions, i will be very happy to help. Take care. Regards:Dr Deepak Patel, MD Pediatrics
lets say I have an infinite number of cookies , and I give all of them to you except 1 . Then you 'll have an infinite number of cookies so : inf - inf = 1 Second scenario , lets say I have infinite cookies , and I give them all to you except a googolplex , Then you 'll still have an infinite number of cookies , so : inf - inf = a googolplex both numbers are infinitely far away from infinity .
The idea around food holding temperatures is to control the growth of bacteria , most of which breed and multiply best between 40 degrees F and 135 degrees F. This range of temperatures is referred to as the " Danger Zone " . Basically bacteria is ALWAYS present on your food , and always multiplying , so keeping cooked food hot is about slowing down the growth of bacteria . Your body can handle some bacteria without you getting sick , but once that bacteria has grown at an exponential rate , doubling itself every sixty seconds for several hours , there are too many for your body to fight , and you get sick . Keeping hot food hot helps SLOW the growth of bacteria , but not stop it . The USDA mandates that prepared food , once heated to proper temperature , may be held hot ( above 135 F ) for four hours before it must be discarded - it is no longer considered safe . With that in mind , I 've seen two methods of temperature holding in the food service industry - heat lamps and steam tables . Heat lamps are typically in the service window - where the waiter gets your food from the kitchen to give to you . When you and your family place your order , some items take longer than others to make , so your nephew 's chicken nuggets will come out much quicker than your filet
He was trying to determine what could be known for certain . We can not necessarily trust the information we receive from our senses , because it is always possible for our senses to deceive us . In the absence of trust of any of this information , he deduces that there is only one thing that can be known for certain ; I must exist , because I am aware of myself thinking .
Immediately move your Roth IRA out of Edward Jones and into a discount broker like Scottrade, Ameritrade, Fidelity, Vanguard, Schwab, or E-Trade. Edward Jones will be charging you a large fraction of your money (probably at least 1% explicitly and maybe another 1% in hidden-ish fees like the 12b-1). Don't give away several percent of your savings every year when you can have an account for free. Places like Edward Jones are appropriate only for people who are unwilling to learn about personal finance and happy to pay dearly as a result. Move your money by contacting the new broker, then requesting that they get your money out of Edward Jones. They will be happy to do so the right way. Don't try and get the money out yourself. Continue to contribute to your Roth as long as your tax bracket is low. Saving on taxes is a critically important part of being financially wise. You can spend your contributions (not gains) out of your Roth for any reason without penalty if you want/need to. When your tax bracket is higher, look at traditional IRA's instead to minimize your current tax burden. For more accessible ways of saving, open a regular (non-tax-advantaged) brokerage account. Invest in diversified and low-cost funds. Look at the expense ratios and minimize your portfolio's total expense. Higher fee funds generally do not earn the money they take from you. Avoid all funds that have a nonzero 12b-1 fee. Generally speaking your best bet is buying
Your source referance a harvard meta study from 2003 . That meta study found that high dosages of floride in rural chinas well water cause a .53 decrease in IQ of children . The dosage in question is much higher than American tap water . It is safe to consume because of dosage . The upside are stronger teeth and fewer cavities . That s the only study inside an very bias article , and it does nt directly link to the paper it links to a huffinton post about the paper . I would nt trust this web site .
All sorts of things ! Making sure that the police had probable cause to stop the vehicle in the first place . No probable cause for the stop , whole case gets tossed . Making sure that the police used appropriate methods for determining that there was probable cause to test for DUI . Unless they 're doing a checkpoint ( for which there are strict rules ) , they ca n't just stop you for an illegal turn and ask you to take a breath test because they feel like it . Making sure that the methods used to determine BAC were reliable and correctly used . Police departments fail to calibrate their equipment -- and lab results get lost / corrupted / switched -- more often than you 'd think . Making sure that any interrogation / questioning conducted back at the station was proper and did not violate any of the defendant 's rights . Etc . It 's not about " proving " that the defendant did n't commit the charged offense . Criminal defense work rarely is . It 's about making sure the state is n't cutting any corners . Which , unfortunately , happens all the time . Convictions can only be based upon evidence which supports guilt beyond a reasonable doubt . Poking holes in the prosecution 's case can be an incredibly effective way of doing that , though in DUI in particular it 's more about keeping improper evidence out
If you want the physiological reason that women have better fine motor skills ( including penmanship , as a general rule ) it is as follows : During puberty , when guys start to get muscly , they actually grow more muscle fibers ( muscle cells ) than women . Since our muscle fibers are generally innervated in groups , and men and women have the same number of nerves , a man 's nerves are controlling more muscle cells at once , making the movements themselves slightly less precise . Also note thought that while this IS true it does n't mean that guys are doomed to have awful fine motor skills or that girls automatically have fabulous fine motor skills . * [ From when this came up last time . ] ( URL_2 ) * [ Here is a paper which indicates that it may also be due to smaller hand size . ] ( URL_3 ) * [ Another study - " These ﬁndings suggest that prenatal hormonal inﬂuences can aﬀect later female handwriting performance and might even aﬀect developmental inter - hemispheric diﬀerences , but do not appear to impact on males . " ] ( URL_0 ) * Here is a good AskScience post on the question -[Does handwriting actually reflect gender ? Yes , accurate determination between 63 % and 86 % of the time ( i.e. significantly better than random ) and not limited to Latin script Europeans either . ] (
Here 's the simplest version of my understanding , this being ELI5 . Essentially , most illnesses can be considered in terms of their symptomology ( what a sick person feels ) and pathology ( the specific physical things that are going wrong ) . The flu , for instance , has symptomology that revolves around fever , aches , etc . and a pathology that involves the influenza virus . When it comes to HIV / AIDS , you have to remember that we defined the symptoms of AIDS before we knew what caused it . AIDS , therefore , is simply a constellation of symptoms , primarily a drastically reduced immune system . HIV is the virus that causes these symptoms . It does so by using certain types of immune system cells to reproduce itself , killing them in the process . Does that make sense ? This is my first try with this ELI5 thing .
I have tinitus . * * To my knowledge * * it can be brought on by a single event of ear drum damage or by lengthy period of being around unsafe levels of noise . As a once off event its most likely that some very loud noise was experienced by your ear . Some initial damage was done and then scarring occurs in the ear , which makes your ear drum unable to vibrate in resonance with a frequency ( or basically , you hear that sort of sound ) . Another way is if you were exposed to a certain level of noise for extended periods of your life . Like high pitches such as alarms , or those concrete drills . There is no cure , if this is all of a sudden there 's a chance it will ease off and go away . But if its after a while and you still have it , you have it . S'not that bad , sleep with music or a fan or something . I live in the city so I very rarely experience total silence . Even my breathing is probably loud enough to drown it out .
Brain simulation is the concept of creating a functioning computer model of a brain or part of a brain. Brain simulation projects intend to contribute to a complete understanding of the brain, and eventually also assist the process of treating and diagnosing brain diseases. Various simulations from around the world have been fully or partially released as open source software, such as C. elegans, and the Blue Brain Project Showcase. In 2013 the Human Brain Project, which has utilized techniques used by the Blue Brain Project and built upon them, created a Brain Simulation Platform (BSP), an internet-accessible collaborative platform designed for the simulation of brain models.
It * appears * curved on that map , but it 's not . If you looked at it on a globe , it would be a circle not aligned with the equator . Look how similar the shape of the ground track is to the day / night terminator line - the terminator ca n't be anything except a circle , yet on that map it looks like a sine wave - just like the ground track does .
I 've had a little exposure to chapter 7 bankruptcy and chapter 13 . I ca n't remember them too well , but ... They basically take a fee ( lawyer fee ) and then compile all your debt you wish to file . You need proof , social security number , et cetera . They lawyer determines if you make enough to pay off your debt , if you do , s / he will advise you do that . As a bankruptcy stays on your credit for 10 years . ( I know people that have filed , and within a year they are able to get car loans , and even house loans . But oddly have trouble getting approved for furniture , or a credit card . ) Anyway , if you go through with it after the lawyer it goes to court ( Usually you have to appear with your lawyer , s / he will do all the talking , you just have to agree . ) You pay your court costs , and it goes through it 's final process of approval . Your debt is now eliminated . You owe nothing , and if you get a collection call , report to your lawyer from whom was collecting , and it 'll get taken care of . If you make a lot of money , or have a bunch of assets , the courts can take some of your assets to pay
Plants are made seedless by selective breeding . Take a specimens with small seeds , breed them together , and their offspring will have small seeds . Repeat until the seeds have shrunk down to nothing . All the plants that you talked about that have seeds ( grapes and watermelons ) grow on vines-- the plants grow very quickly , so they can breed quickly . Cherries , and avocados , meanwhile , grow on trees . To produce a specimen , you need to plant it ... and then wait as much as ten years for it to start producing fruit . So it would take decades to make even a reasonable amount of progress towards producing seedless tree fruits . In fact , people have been cultivating Avocados for hundreds of years ( if not thousands ) and have bred them bigger and with more fruit , but have n't managed to get them all the way to seedless .
Quality , Customer loyalty , Choice , Service , Flexibility , Culture Quality : Serve a better burger and fries . Make the burgers on site use real bacon and cut the French fries yourself . Your combo costs 8 bucks but it 's a full 1/2 lb burger with crisp bacon and melted swiss and the fries are hot and fresh and use coarse sea salt or a seasoned salt rather than the fine powdered stuff you get at Mcdonalds . Customer Loyalty : I know several small burger joints that have been in business at the same location for 40 - 50 years . My grandparents ate there my parents ate there I ate there as a kid and I eat there as an adult . Choice : When discussing where to eat most people only give each restaurant vote even if there are 20 Taco bells nearby and only one Juans taco shack . Taco bell and Taco shack get the same number of customers per location . Service : Small businesses often have the owner or a close relative of the owner on site . This is generally less true for franchises . Everything that small business owner has is tied into the business and they give it their all to make customers happy and want to come back . While a manager at a chain restaurant has considerably less investment in insuring customer happiness . Flexibility : A Mcdonalds franchise costs nearly a million dollars
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil , in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia and Peru, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica (1000 km).
[ Not constitutional ] ( URL_0 ) I 'm guessing your city did this as an anti - homeless measure . The ELI5 version is , the Federal Court ruled that sleeping is a biological necessity . Since some people are homeless , they have few options but to sleep outside . Banning sleeping outside to a homeless person is banning them from being able to sleep and is considered " cruel and unusual punishment " and is unconstitutional .
For starters, that site shows the first 5 levels on each side of the book, which is actually quite a bit of information. When traders say the top of the book, they mean just the first level. So you're already getting 8 extra levels. If you want all the details, you must subscribe to the exchange's data feeds (this costs thousands of dollars per month) or open an account with a broker who offers that information. More important than depth, however, is update frequency. The BATS site appears to update every 5 seconds, which is nowhere near frequently enough to see what's truly going on in the book. Depending on your use case, 2 levels on each side of the book updated every millisecond might be far more valuable than 20 levels on each side updated every second.
The answer is a IV chord . There is no easy way to teach this in a single post - music theory needs to be built up slowly , but I will copy a reply I gave to a similar question in another thread . So here we go : Ok , a chord progression is just how the chords change in the music . If you grab your keyboard or guitar and pluck out out G major , C major and D major , you 're playing a really common chord progression . Now , we can explain a chord progression just by saying ‘ It goes , G major , E minor , C major , D major ’ , which is great , but not very useful when we 're talking in more general terms . What if I wanted the same musical effect , but with A major as the first chord ? I 'd need to say ‘ It goes A major , F # minor , D major and then E major ’ ( we 've moved the whole chord progression up a tone here ) . That would be pretty long winded . What we need is a way to explain the relationship between the chords no matter which chord we 're starting on . To do that , we use roman numerals . As far as I know , we use numerals to differentiate them from intervals , which describes the difference
a couple reasons I can think of . * Practicality : What the hell are you going to look at ? You can barely focus on anything on their face at that distance . * Kissing is a physical sensation . Heightening the sense of touch by removing sense of sight just kind of feels intuitive . * Conditioning : We 've seen the stereotypical kiss in movies all the time , so we emulate that , even subconsciously .
Independence or as much autonomy within Russia as possible . Between 1994 and 1996 , Chechnya fought for independence . Yelstin , the Russian President , sent in the tanks . 80,000 to 120,000 Chechens died , three quarters civilians . After that , Chechnya ( the " Chechen Republic of Ichkeria " ) had a sort of uneasy factual independence . Then in 1999 Russian troops invaded again , with the loss of 50,000 to 70,000 lives . Russia continued to maintain a significant military presence in Chechnya until 2009 , when it started winding down . Chechnya lost all de facto independence . It had broken Chechnya as an organised military force so closed the guerrilla warfare route to independence . Therefore as we come to 2014 , other routes are being tried .
A stack can be taken quite literally . Say you have a stack of papers ( an organised pile , one on top of another ) . You can put another paper on top of the original stack ( push ) or take one of the top ( pop ) . However never from the bottom or middle , as the stack would ' collapse ' ( Last In , First Out principle ) . This same goes for programming . You can make a stack hold data ( it 's a data structure ) to analyse ( like strings , integers etc . ) or you can view it like in this Simple Stack Machine . ( URL_0 ) . Basically all your instructions are put on a stack to manipulate . Example : LDC 2 LDC 3 ADD This puts ( pops ) ' 2 ' on the stack , then ' 3 ' . The ' ADD ' command takes ( pops ) the two from the top ( or in this case read it from the bottom to the top ) and adds them to return ( push ) the result on top of the stack . ~~I'm not a 100 % sure about this , but whenever you encounter a stack overflow , it just means there are too many ' commands ' on the stack , since a program is given a maximum size ( the stack of papers ca n't get higher than
Some are just douchebaggery , some are in good fun ( the hello world virus ) , some are for profit ( ransomware ) , some are for spying and then you have the viruses that have a very explicit goal ( like stuxnet ) . There probably are other types , but the basic premise is running a program on an infected machine with a specific purpose . What that purpose is depends entirely on the intentions of the creator . Take stuxnet for example . This was most likely the product of US - Israeli collaboration with the extremely specific purpose of shutting down certain parts of an Irani nuclear powerplant . Since that powerplant had closed circuit electronics ( not connected to internet or other networks ) the virus needed to be implemented manually . The way it worked was quite ingenious . It spread through the internet but only to other computers that were physically closer to its intended target . The goal was to eventually infect a usb - stick that would be connected to the closed circuit of the nuclear power plant , which it did after a 2 year journey on the internet . The damage it caused took 2 years to repair . Anyway , most viruses are written for some form of gain . Be that in personal information , monetary gain ( through ransomware or by stealing credit card credentials ) or political and/or geostrategic gain . But like I
Passive - aggressive behaviour is the indirect expression of hostility , such as through procrastination , sarcasm , stubbornness , sullenness , or deliberate and repeated failure to accomplish requested tasks for which one is ( often explicitly ) responsible . Example : When others make requests or demands of them , passive aggressive people will often view them as unfair or unjust . Rather than express their feelings on the subject . They will bottle them up and resent the other person for making the demands . In most cases they quickly forget that they did not have to agree to the demand , or that they could have voiced their feelings at the time that the request was made .
Being President is a 24/7 job . Every second of every day he ( or she ) has to be available to deal with whatever may happen at any given time . Part of this is removing any possible distraction from his life so that he is free to think about other things . If the SS ( I hate using that acronym for the Secret Service , but it is what it is ) has to pull him away to get him to safety , put him on Air Force One because of an impeding nuclear strike , get him to a bunker , or rush him to an emergency meeting , minutes and even seconds count . If the President is off driving a car , those minutes lost getting him out might matter . Plus there is a safety aspect . What if he wrecks the car ? What if the car catches on fire ? What if it was booby trapped ? The reason why the President is so protected is because the office is much more important than the man , but for those 4 or 8 years , the man is the office . This is why assassinations are so much bigger of a deal than any random murder . The path of the nation according to Presidential policy rides on his shoulders , his health is taken into account by other nations when they 're deciding how to deal with us . And
The camera has little to do with it . As a professional photographer , it 's not uncommon to hear someone say " that 's a great picture , you must have a good camera ! " And that 's really frustrating . It 's like saying to a chef " great dinner , you must have a nice stove ! " As others have pointed out , what actually makes a professional is the ability to make money . Period . To do so , you need to know how to make good photos in a variety of situations , yes , but more importantly , you need to please your client , expect the unexpected , and be flexible but have some sort of recognizable style . And you ultimately are n't an artist if you 're successful , you 're running your own business . You need to budget your money and time , establish a logical and efficient workflow , source vendors , network , market , market , and market ! Maintain your website , portfolio , and social media . Fight to gain work over your competitors . I 'd say that realistically , 10 % of my time involves holding a camera . Yes , the camera matters , but to way less of a degree than you imagine . And , the hidden secret is that the camera itself does n't make that huge of a difference . When you look at
Habitat 's goal is for everyone to have access to a simple , decent place to live . The homes that have been foreclosed on are typically more expensive than the average Habitat house ( in the US , at least ) . That average cost in the US is $ 46,600.[Source ] ( URL_0 ) As mentioned in other answers , the banks are in the business of profit . The overwhelming majority of new homes that were bought in the housing boom cost the bank far more than $ 46k . That average was $ 301900 in December 2006.[Source ] ( URL_1 ) . The costs associated with houses of the average type sold , versus what Habitat 's mission is to provide , is such that those houses are n't affordable . Remember that even if those houses cost only $ 100k to build , say , the bank still wants to get $ 300k for the house ; $ 46k is not at all appealing to them . Banks are n't charities , quite simply . There 's actually a good deal of disagreement within Habitat about how much effort and money is put toward the US housing goals compared to their worldwide mission , because the cost of a house here is so much greater than the cost of a house elsewhere in the world . For example , I worked on a Habitat house in Mexico that was going to cost something like $
I read about the 90-90-90 rule aka 90% of the people lose 90% of the money in 90 days. Anything that happens in 90 days or less is speculation (effectively gambling), not investment. And the 90-90-90 thing sounds around right for inexperienced amateurs going up against professionals in that space. I don't know anyone who actually made significant amount money by investing in stocks or other financial products except those appearing in TVs. Lots and lots and lots of people do. I heard that people who actually encourage common people to invest in stocks are stock brokers and fund managers who actually gain by the fact that more people invest. No. It's true that lots of people will give you advice to by specific stocks or financial instruments that will earn them comission or fees, but the basic idea of investing in the stock market is very sound; ultimately, it's based on the ability of companies to create value and pay dividends. Could you please give some valid reasons to invest in stocks or other financial market. Thank you. Well, what else can you do with your money? Put it in an interest-bearing bank account? Effectively, you'll still be investing in the stock market, the bank is just taking most of the returns in exchange for guaranteeing that you'll never lose money even temporarily.
> If the 1.3 billion dollar jackpot is only worth 806 million , why would n't it be a better idea to opt for the payments ? Because you can make much more than $ 1.3 billion by investing it yourself . This is because you can do so without the overhead of having to pay for the bureaucracy around having the lottery commission handle your money .
It just translates one type of signal to another . In the old days a modem would be the guy at the telegraph office tapping out the Morse Code . Since the telegraph wires can only carry beeps , the modem ( in this case the person ) translates words to beeps . Nowadays , we have small boxes that do the translating , and instead of translating simple words to beeps , we translate digital signals from computers to analog signals that travel through telephone wires or coax cable .
because digital copies of games are free for them . So it 's all about how many they can sell . If they believe they can increase the sells by 50 % by decreasing the price by 50 % , then they will do it . As long as they can sell a lot of copies , they could sell you the game for 0.1 € and they would still be making money .
There are two things at play : First : The butane which burns is pressurized inside the lighter , it is expelled at such a rate that it only mixes with enough oxygen that it can ignite a few milometers above the nozzle . Second : There is not enough oxygen inside the lighter for combustion to occur inside . Think about it like this , if you have a spray bottle and fill it with gasoline , then spray a fine mist of gasoline into the air near a flame , that small cloud will ignite in a fireball . However ; if you have a sealed container filled to the brim with gasoline , and somehow get a spark to go off in that container , the gasoline will not ignite . Gasoline requires like 100 parts of air for every 1.5 parts of gasoline before it will ignite . Butane is roughly the same . Here is a wiki on flammability limits : URL_0
They do n't . The southern US border is vastly unsecured and people and drugs can quite literally be walked across it . The United States relies on the annual migration of immigrant labor to harvest the vast majority of its crops and there is a large immigrant population in the country so there is very serious domestic political pressure not to secure it fully .
Depends on the poison , but none are ever ok to eat ! As others mentioned , Cyanide in any form ( KCN , HCN , etc . ) does n't really break down , and even if it did begin to degrade the lethal dose is much less than a gram - there 's a good bet that there 's still enough to kill you , the rat , and a few others as well . Anticoagulants like Coumarin ( fun fact : the blood thinner Warfarin got its start as a rat poison ) , will degrade slowly , but it does n't take much ( still less than a gram ) to be lethal or render serious harm . Phosphides degrade to [ phosphines ] ( URL_0 ) which fortunately smell very bad , because they are very toxic . Do n't get near those . Vitamin D can be used as well . Animals only need a small amount , and if large ( toxic ) quantities are used , it causes Calcium to accumulate to dangerous levels in the blood and organs . * In theory * this is the least toxic , because vitamin D degrades to other cholesterols when exposed to light , but bait traps may be packaged with anticoagulants to increase their effectiveness , and the packaging acts to preserve it . Never eat it . TL;DR Rat poisons may not work as well after the expiration date but still are
About 40 million years ago , the Simiiformes infraorder split into parvorders Platyrrhini ( New World monkeys — in South America ) and Catarrhini ( apes and Old World monkeys — in Africa).[9 ] The individuals whose descendents would become Platyrrhini are currently conjectured to have migrated to South America either on a raft of vegetation or via a land bridge . There are two possible rafting routes , either across the Atlantic Ocean from Africa or across the Caribbean from North America . However , there is no fossil record to support the hypothesis of a migration from North America . The land bridge hypothesis relies on the existence of Atlantic Ocean ridges and a fall in the sea level in the Oligocene . This would have either produced a single land bridge or a series of mid - Atlantic islands to act as stepping stones for the migration.[10 ] At that time , the Isthmus of Panama had not yet formed , ocean currents and climate were quite different , and the Atlantic Ocean was less than the present 2,800 km ( 1,700 mi ) width by about a third ; possibly 1,000 km less , based on the current estimate of the Atlantic mid - ocean ridge formation processes spreading rate of 25 mm / year . From Wikipedia 's article on New World Monkeys .
On your tongue you have things that sense sweet , sour , bitter , spicy , and savory(meatiness ) . When sugar or sugar like substances touch the part of your tongue that tastes sweet , they activate a signal that goes to your brain and says " I 'm tasting sweet . " It is possible to trick this part of tongue with things that are like sugar , but are not sugar . Some of these sugar - like things ca n't be used for energy , they are indigestible ( you pee them out usually ) . Some of these sugar - like things are 100 or 1000x sweeter than sugar so instead of using 100 calories of sugar , the drink makers can use 1 calorie to get the same sweetness . As to the rest of the stuff in the drink , most of it is either water ( which you pee out ) or CO2 ( which you breath out ) . These do n't have any ' energy ' . The rest is either in very small amounts or is indigestible . This includes things that change the color of the drink ( like food coloring ) , things that make the drink taste the same longer ( called preservatives ) , and things that change the flavor ( usually labelled natural and artificial flavors ) .
Ophthalmologist here . From 20 feet , or 6 meters , the light rays entering the eye are essentially parallel . There is no need to accommodate ( change the focusing power of the lens of the eye ) . That is why we use the 20/20 , or 6/6 . Light rays that are from a closer object would be diverging when they hit your eye , and would require focusing effort . Light rays from farther than 20 feet are indistinguishable from those 20 feet away . The limit of human vision is calculated to be around 20/08 . If you think of it in terms of pixels , the cone photoreceptors are packed most tightly in our fovea ( center of our retina ) . If the rest of the eye were perfect , i.e. no cataract or refractive error , you could see 20/08 . Those young adults who can read the 20/10 line without glasses have close to perfect vision .
Depending on the cut of meat , but overcooking will usually cause the steak to become tough . The leaner the cut of meat the more likely the more you overcook it the drier and tougher it will get as the juiciness and tenderness is tied to the water and fat composition . On top of this some extra tidbits : * The longer steak is cooked , the fewer vitamins it contains * Cooking meat in water reduces its vitamin content further ( the vitamins leech out into the water ) * The levels of iron and zinc increase with cooking * Fat levels drop with cooking
Suppose you wanted to find the length of part of a circle , [ like this ] ( URL_0 ) . How would you do that ? Well , we know the length around the whole circle is ( 2)(pi)(r ) . If we want only a quarter of the arc , the distance is ( 2)(pi)(r)/4 ( for a quarter of the whole thing ) , and so on . Then our formula is arclength = ( theta)(r ) . Simple . If we used degrees , it would be ( theta*)(pi)/(180)(r ) , much uglier ! And for that matter , why choose 360 degrees in a circle ? Why not 270 , or 120 , or 10 , or 60 ? The number of degrees in a circle are so arbitrary ! So math geeks said screw degrees . They 're arbitrary and make things complicated . If we met up with aliens , chances are they would use radians , since they 're intuitive and natural . We like intuitive and natural , not arbitrary and complicated .
Sit on a rolly chair , and grab a tennis ball , sit near a wall . Throw the tennis ball at the wall . See how much you 're rolling back ? Now grab the tennis ball , move farther from the wall . Throw that tennis ball . You 'll move the same amount ! If you keep repeating this , you 'll find that you do n't actually need a wall to bounce the tennis ball off of to actually go forward . I think this is where you are are getting confused . The tennis ball doing the bouncing off the wall does n't matter to you , how could it ? It does n't bounce back to you and push you forward again . You move forward as soon as you throw it . This is the same as it is for a rocket . It does n't need anything to push off of , anything to " bounce it 's tennis balls " off of . It just throws out lots of lots of tennis balls very quickly . ( Rocket exhaust ) . This is Newton 's 3rd law of motion . Every action there is an equal and opposite reaction . Your throwing the ball in one direction pushes you in the other direction
This is a common occurrence when somebody has multiple jobs in one year. The employer can't know if you have reached the annual limit. They know to stop when you have hit the maximum for their company, but don't have information on the other jobs. In fact the IRS doesn't let them factor in the other jobs. They have to keep making their payment until you hit the max for their company. When you fill out the 1040 there will be a line that checks that the total social security amount for each person was not over the annual limit. The extra will be refunded when you file your taxes. In the future if this happens again you can adjust your withholding to minimize the overage. For the example given in the question to get the 4K extra sooner, increase the number of allowances on the W-4. You can under withhold federal income tax because you will over withhold social security tax.
The way I understood it ( and I could be way off ) was that he could see every possible ... posibility all at once and then choose which to follow . It was nt shown well , not that I could do it better , but the concept of being able to view the literally infinite number of possibilities every action of every person and every thing they interact with at once is a cool concept .
From what I 've gathered , " rape culture " is used to describe a culture where rape is trivialized . Rape is a very serious violation of somebody 's body , mind , and emotional well - being . It can be done by anybody , stranger or family , and is often an extremely traumatic event in a victim 's life . Rape culture seems to subvert this . Rape culture can be displayed in the form of rape jokes , casual phrases ( " Man , I got raped by this bio paper ! " ) , and even forms of victim - blaming and shaming . You might see stories where a girl drank , passed out , and a young man had sex with her while she was unconscious ( and unable to consent , thus making it rape ) . Oftentimes , go to the comments section and you 'll see at least a few people say something to the effect of , " She should n't drink anyway / that 's what she gets for being irresponsible , " and so on . Or maybe it 's a man who is blackmailed or threatened into sex by a girl , or even drugged into it . This , too , is rape- this man has been violated , but often others make comments like " If he did n't want it , he 's a fag / Man up / I'd love to
In north America the cost of air conditioning schools over summer also adds to the resistance in changing schedules . Most schools were not built with cooling systems , assuming they would be vacant during the hottest months . In Las Vegas and some other arid climate counties some schools have gone to year long or alternating month calendars . You try teaching kids every day . You will need a couple months per year to gather your sanity .
There are parts of physics that involve taking an initial assumption and seeing what weird place it leads you . With relativity , the initial assumption is that the speed of light always appears to be the same regardless of how you are moving . The weird place it leads you is that it means time passes differently depending on how you 're moving . [ The math behind this is n't too difficult to follow ] ( URL_0 ) basically depending on how you and I and moving we can see the light needing to take paths of different lengths , so we perceive time going at different speed . The next step is to see if the weird conclusion is right . We do this my making observations or doing tests . In the case of relativity , it agrees with what we see . Based on this we 've decided that the model reflects reality and we decide it 's right ( or at least for fast moving objects it 's more right than the model we had before ) . I 'm not sure if that helps you wrap your head around it , but sadly reality does n't care if something makes sense to us or not . The twin paradox itself is just a small twist on this that explains why it 's the twin who experiences the acceleration and deceleration that ages less than the one who stays at home . When you
The texture of ice cream depends on the types of crystals that form to make the ice part when it freezes . You get different crystals based on the time it takes to freeze , how cold the actual medium is that freezes it , and a few other factors . When you pull it out of the fridge and refreeze it you are changing the crystal structure . The structure of the ice crystals ( how they fit together ) determines the texture of your ice cream - large crystals = grainy - small crystals = smoothe The churning is not for air . It 's because it 's literally breaking up any of the larger bonds of small crystals while it 's freezing . Churning prevents the small crystals from turning into big crystals while they freeze . If anything , it 's working air OUT of the system by churning because water has this cool property that , when it freezes , the new formation of the molecules causes it to become less dense and have very tiny pockets of air in it . This is because of the shape of the molecule . If you are forming bigger crystals , you have more of these pockets and thus MORE air in the mixture . It 's not about air at all . The actual " ice crystals " that you are getting on ice cream ( the super gross white ice crystals on top of the
This is called the twin paradox , and is not the same as time dilation though they are related . Imagine a twin on earth and another in a space ship . The twin in the ship travels very far away at near the speed of light and returns to Earth . It turns out the twin in the ship is younger than the twin on Earth once he / she returns , hence the paradox . This is different from time dilation because there are accelerations involved ( returning to Earth requires changing velocity ) . In time dilation , two people with watches are traveling at some velocity relative to each other . Each person sees the other person 's watch going slower than their own . You ca n't really say who is younger than the other in this case ( if the two people are twins ) . It is only because the spaceship twin accelerates to get back to Earth that allows for the discrepancy in age .
From the wikipedia page you link to in the section " Youngest popes " : > All four were members of the Theophylacti family that dominated Roman politics during the 10th century . This period is known to historians as the saeculum obscurum . That was very much an anomaly , the section also shows that the average where people become pope was already over 60 between 1500 and 1700 and has increased little since then .
You should use the highest " octane rating " that is recommended for your vehicle . That 's the fuel that your engine is optimized for . Modern computer - controlled ignition , timing , and fuel - management systems will adjust for lower octane ratings , but it 's not the best scenario for your vehicle . If you use a fuel with a higher octane rating than the maximum for which your engine is designed , you are wasting your money . Fuels with higher octane ratings are usually more expensive , and generally contain less potential energy than fuels with lower octane ratings . The octane rating is a measure of a fuel 's ability to resist detonation ( a harmful event caused when the fuel / air mixture within the engine ignites spontaneously , without the intentional ignition caused by the firing of the spark plugs ) . Octane is an actual chemical component of gasoline , after which the " octane rating " is named . So , in layman 's terms , over - simplified , but basically correct -- The higher a fuel 's " octane rating " is , the harder it is to get it to ignite or burn . One of the main " octane rating boosters " used in WWII pursuit and fighter aircraft , was WATER . Water - injection systems are a crude , easy , and relatively fail - safe method of boosting a fuel 's
Dividends can also be automatically reinvested in your stock holding through a DRIP plan (see the wikipedia link for further details, wiki_DRIP). Rather than receiving the dividend money, you "buy" additional stock shares your with dividend money. The value in the DRIP strategy is twofold. 1) your number of shares increases without paying transaction fees, 2) you increase the value of your holding by increasing number of shares. In the end, the RIO can be quite substantial due to the law of compounding interest (though here in the form of dividends). Talk with your broker (brokerage service provider) to enroll your dividend receiving stocks in a DRIP.
Because of the way AC Motors are set up . This was actually an engineering quandry in the 19th century as it was well - known that AC could transmit farther than DC , but there were no motors that would actually work with AC . That 's why Tesla is so important in not that he popularized AC , but that he created the AC Motor -- something that could actually use the changing current to do work . The motor works by rotating the magnetic field . Here 's an animation of it : URL_0
Yup . Suppose you 're a board operator at a radio station and you must play so many commercials during breaks in a broadcast of a local high school football game . You 've got your orders to play these , but the game commentators do n't break away enough for you to play ALL the sold ads . Do NOT stack 'em all up at the end of the game and play several minutes of ads before going to music . Why ? Two reasons . Listeners will turn to a different station after four ads in the same stop set for the same goddamn hardware store . Also -- station owner WILL call you and yell at you . Trust me on this . :D
* * A life sentence is not for LIFE * * A life sentence can be 10 - 20 - 30 years . Edit : Why its not life ? The term " life " means the maximum time you could spend in prison as part of that sentence . That does n't mean you ca n't get parole at some point , which is why a non - parole period is part of most jail sentences . If you do n't make parole , you 'll be in there for the rest of your life .
Because they are stopping you based on public road safety , and they are stopping everyone If they were searching for drugs , it would n't be legal ( unless it 's at a border ) If they were only stopping young males , it would n't be legal ( unless they were searching for someone who matched that description and it was linked to public safety ) But as it stands , they are stopping you for a completely legitimate reason ( trying to stop drunk drivers ) , and they are stopping everyone . The 4th amendment stops unreasonable search and seizure " * The right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers , and effects , against unreasonable searches and seizures , shall not be violated , and no Warrants shall issue , but upon probable cause , supported by Oath or affirmation , and particularly describing the place to be searched , and the persons or things to be seized * " As it stands , they have a reason to stop you , but they ca n't search you unless they have probably cause ( they smell drugs , you 're passengers are drinking , etc )
Say I make two classes with direct references to each other . This makes them tightly coupled , hindering them to be used individually elsewhere in the code . This often leads to the having to rewrite parts of code in other areas and making it a nightmare when you have to update the code a year later and only remember to update in once place . It also makes it difficult to test either class by itself , so debugging means effectively treating the two as a larger , more complex class . So the solution to this problem is to use abstraction to keep classes decoupled . You make an interface or abstract class that provides or describes some base functionality , and then anything implementing those can be used in operations throughout the code . This allows easier modification and testing , as you can add and remove classes without having to update existing code that operates on the abstracted level . And you can test the generic - handling code without relying on specific implementations of various classes . A basic example is sorting things . The sorting algorithm does n't care what the things actually are , just what the outcome is when you compare two of them to each other . So making that an interface with some compare function , you can now implement a sorting algorithm that works with anything that implements that interface . Or perhaps message parsing . If you
The gibberish is generally helpful to the developers , and usually comes in the form of a ' stack trace ' . This is essentially the list of functions the program was working on at the time that the error occurred . There will also be a technical cause for the error , probably due to trying to access an invalid part of memory . If the error comes up enough they can try to catch it and replace the gibberish with something helpful to the user , but that relies on coding a way of catching that particular error , handling it , and recovering the program to a usable state .
This is something that could just be googled , but Lithium Ion batteries do NOT have " charge memory " . So if you 're constantly plugging it in at 40 percent , it wo n't revert to that . Also , a lot of the reason batteries tend to lose power is the contacts wear out . That is where leaving it fully charged can be bad , because the contacts are constantly being used , which wears them out . Edit : The contacts , if I 'm mistaken , are where the batteries touch and can power the laptop . I ca n't seem to find a good word for it . Anyway , those begin to degrade after use
Numbers repeat after 10 digits while the letters typically do n't ( except in things like excel or hexadecimal ) . You 're likely good at counting down with numbers because you 've practiced it from a young age . I had a teacher whose sister played a mean joke on her when she was really little . She taught her the alphabet backwards . Even now as she approaches retirement , she can still rattle off the alphabet amazingly quickly that way . She even challenged students to race her while going the other direction . Oddly enough , she has to slow down to do it the other way . In the end , it 's mostly about practice .
Mostly bullshit . The only truth it might have is that if you switch to higher alcohol content drinks when you 're already impaired , you 're going to have a hard time judging how much is appropriate to consume at what rate , so low ABV stuff like beer followed by higher ABV stuff like liquor gives you a higher chance of getting more drunk than you planned . There 's nothing physiologically special about it though , alcohol is alcohol .
Hello, Welcome to Icliniq. I see than you haven't mentioned the date of your last menstrual period. Ideally, if you have had a regular 28days cycles, the urine pregnancy test is usually positive by the time you skip your periods. Delayed ovulation can be common in PCOS, So, I would suggest you to recheck your home pregancy test with an early morning urine sample tomorrow, and exactly at the time interval at which the result has to be read as mentioned on the kit. Sometimes if seen very late , the evaporation line also may seem as faintly positive which is actually a false positive. Early morning urine sample is supposed to be having concentrated levels of the Beta HCG hormone which is detected on the pregnancy kit. So recheck again tomorrow with a morning sample of urine. If you donot have any pain or spotting, you can visit your Gynaecologist at ease, may be in a week, and get an ultrasound done for pregnancy viability and localisation. Meanwhile continue taking folic acid & Eltroxin Medications & recheck your thyroid levels as during the pregnancy the dose may have to be changed due to increased requirements in pregnancy. Hope this helps. Please feel free to revert back anytime for any further queries or Information. - Continue Tablet Folic acid 5mg daily once till 14weeks.- Continue Tablet Eltroxin 50mcg daily once. - Avoid sexual intercourse in the first 4months of pregnancy.
You had the right analogy at first , but comparing ( wheels ) to ( feet + legs ) is n't quite apples to apples . Think of riding on a bike , coming to a complete stop , getting up to speed again , stopping etc . It takes a LOT of energy to accelerate from a complete stand still over and over again compared to maintaining a high rate of speed , so long as that rate of speed remains constant . Going from 50 - 65 and back down again , or driving like my grandma who steps on it , then coasts for a second , then steps on it again that s very inefficient as well . It 's just a lot more efficient to go a constant rate of speed , and as far as rate of speed there 's a happy middle when you 're in top gear ( usually 4th in automatics and 5th in manuals ) , example , so when you 're at freeways speeds , the RPMs should sit between 2 - 3 K RPM for maximum efficiency , whereas in the city you might have to go above 3 K RPM a few times going through gears , and maybe even 4 K RPM accelerating up to speed in the city , while only going a few blocks , then stopping again . Hope that helps
That 's the default texture in the game . Why that one ? It 's checkered to give a sense of angle and depth ; if it were just a flat color , it would be hard to tell if it were a wall , a hole , a table , or what . It 's hot pink to make it easy to spot , so any missing textures are corrected before launch ( ideally ) .
Assuming here that you're talking about deducting your tuition as a below the line deduction as a business expense or similar, then it depends. Per 1.162-5, if the education: Then it qualifies as a legitimate business expense and is deductible. If not - if you're going to school for a different career, such as someone employed as a waiter but going to school to get a degree in nursing, or someone employed as a teacher getting a law degree - then it's not; you'd have to qualify under one of the other (simpler, but lesser) credits. Read more on this topic at Tax topic 513. Note that the other most commonly applicable deduction - the above the line Tuition and Fees deduction - expired in 2016 and is not applicable (yet?) in 2017, and further would not require most of what you describe as it only counts tuition and fees paid directly to the institution and required as a condition of attendance, so books, parking, etc. don't count.
After you are arrested , the state wants a guarantee that you will show up for court . The " bail " money is used to coerce you into compliance . You get the money back when the case is disposed of , guilty or not , as long as you appear in court when you 're told . If you do n't show up , you have " jumped bail " and the cops and maybe Dog the bounty hunter will come looking for you .
[ This ] ( URL_0 ) thread has some good answers . [ This ] ( URL_0 ca4c38 t ) is currently the top comment by /u / PreviousNickStolen : " We went from a manufacturing industry to a high tech and service industry . There are less jobs available for lower educated people without language or otherwise advanced skills . The jobs available that does n't require a college / university degree gets taken by native swedish speaking workers . The jobs that are still left , cleaning , fast food industry , other menial jobs does n't pay enough compared to just sitting on your ass collecting welfare . This could technically happen without immigrants too , but the worst educated swedes are still at least speaking non - broken swedish and have approximately 12 years of schooling . These people are immigrants , sure , but they are also belonging to the swedish lowest economic class with very few prospects of advancing in life ( even the immigrants living in these areas that succeed in school / life move away ) . Basically they are rioting because they live in a ghetto , I 'm not 100 % sure they realize this themselves , but obviously their chances of succeeding in sweden are severely lowered by the fact that they only know other immigrants , only go to school with other immigrants and almost no native swedes wants to live in a area with high unemployment ,
Think of it less of a yellow pages phone book , and more like the phone book on your mobile , sure you can just enter John 's number , but it 's tricky to remember everyone 's number , it 's much easier to phone John , and have your phone look through it 's database and get John 's number for you . Now imagine John has 5 phones , 1 for calls from America , 1 for Europe , another for Asia and a couple of spares in case those phones get too busy , now it 's even harder to remember all those numbers , and John would need to go to the trouble of telling people in different places to use different numbers , and sometimes his numbers change which makes it even harder to get the word out . If he registers with a DNS , he just has to tell * them * his numbers ( and when they change ) and anyone in the world can just call the DNS " phone book " and ask for John ( URL_0 ) , and they 'll get directed to the right phone ( server ) automatically .
Let 's say I have a sequence of bytes that looks like this : aaaaaaaabcabcabc . I can write that as 7(a)3(abc ) without losing any information- I know exactly how to expand that out to the original text . That 's called run length encoding , and it 's one of several tricks that zip files use to compress files . There are others , like Huffman Encoding if you want to look it up ( which resembles abbreviating words in your notes and keeping track of what the abbreviations mean ) , but they 're all along the same general idea .
For the most part , they do appear the same . Painters have a hard time differentiating between the two . We sense a difference because of other senses , like smell , temperature , etc . On the other hand , sunset / rise is colored because of particulates in the air . The light reflects off of the bits of dust and pollution , making rainbow colors . Theoretically , if we are producing significantly more pollution during the day than at night , sunsets would be more brilliant than sunrises , when the air cools and particulates settle out of the atmosphere .
Summarising the [ wiki article ] ( URL_0 ) , it 's a policy that married couples can only have a single child . It restricts only those in urban areas who are n't an ethnic minority and are n't an only child . It is still in place , though they have become more lenient in recent years ( several provinces will allow anyone to have a second child ) . It is enforced through fines on those that breach it . Having that extra child can also result in a loss of benefits . There are local government groups who focus on enforcing the policy and educating the populace about it .
Think about how the image reflects back to your eye ... Look in the mirror . Take right finger and place it on your right ear . Now move your finger straight to the spot on the mirror where your ear is . Notice how it 's in a straight line from your real ear to your mirror ear ? So your right ear is on the right side of the mirror . When someone looks at you your right ear is on the left according to the person looking at you because you guys are facing eachother . Now look at the mirror again and place your finger on your forehead ... Now would n't it be more strange for your head to be reflected from the bottom if you were to flip top and bottom ?
Torque is a rotational force . So , when you push a door open or shut , you are applying torque . A heavy door will require more torque to open it than a light door . For a car , torque is going to tell you a couple things . It will tell you how fast the car can accelerate or it can tell you how big of a load it can pull . A car with high torque will be able to accelerate faster than a car with low torque or it will be able to pull heavier loads than a car with low torque .
GPUs are specialized for floating point calculations ( values with a decimal point , like 3.14 ) , whereas CPUs are all - around calculation units that " usually " process integer values ( 1 , 2 , 3 etc . ) . GPUs are so good in those calculations , because games and other 3D - heavy applications require a lot of these calculations , and as these applications have been getting heavier and heavier , the graphics cards have been developed to meet these requirements . The design of GPUs is originally for the 3D calculations alone , but at some point someone noticed " hey , you can do this protein folding calculation ten times faster with a graphics card ! " . CPUs are still " basically the same thing " as they were in the 80 's , and such , they are still designed for the same purposes . Graphics cards came out in the 90 's , but they have been revised a lot more than the CPUs ( do n't get me wrong , CPUs have been getting better and better because of processing extensions , faster processing speed , bigger caches , cramming multiple cores in a single casing etc . ) . P.S : Note that the above is very " ELI5"-esque , CPUs can and do process floating point values , and GPUs can process integer values ( among other things ) . :)
Actually - I 've read a book on the subject called " UN - The broken dreams " and it 's sadly only available in Swedish . A small excerpt from the books introduction : > How would the worst possible roles for an international organization look like ? Genocide ( Rwanda ) would be responsible for the safety , Communist one - party states ( China ) would promote human rights , badly governed African countries ( Zimbabwe ) would take care of the economic development and fundamentalist Muslims ( Saudi Arabia ) to promote women 's rights . And so an expensive , corrupt and inefficient administration on top of it all .
Yes , the fastest possible speed for any communication , including the internet , is the speed of light . Most internet links are slower than that . Even light will travel at somewhat less than * c * ( the speed of light in a vacuum ) if it 's moving through a medium , like optical fiber . This means there 's a minimum latency , that is , the time required to go from point A to point B , depending on distance between the two points ( about 1 millisecond each way for each 300 km ) . If you 're connected to a server 3000 km away it 's going to take at least 20 milliseconds to get a response .
HIThank for asking to HCMI really appreciate your concern looking to the history given here I could say that this is condition of "Gynecomastia" looking to your age this is some time happens I this age group and the most probable cause would be higher amount of estrogen but no need to worry about this it would come around, no need to do any think or think any thing, take car and have a nice day.
Programs are like people . If they 're busy doing something else they wo n't respond to you . Non - five year old answer : see [ this page from microsoft ] ( URL_0 ) . In a nutshell there are events like key presses , mouse clicks and others . Windows passes these on to programs who then do whatever they need to do in response to the event . If there 's a bug a program could get stuck doing something else and not check with Windows to see if there are any new events . That 's when Windows raises the error .
The margin rules are also more complicated. A simple buy on a non-margin account will never run into margin rules and you can just wait out any dips if you have confidence the stock will recover. A "simple" short sell might get you a call from your broker that you have a margin call, and you can't wait it out without putting more money in. Personally I have trouble keeping the short sale margin rules straight in my head, at least compared to a long sale. I got in way over my head shorting AMZN once, and lost a lot of money because I thought it was overvalued at the time, but it just kept going up and I wanted it to go down. I've never gotten stuck like that on a long position.
How would this trade behave IRL? I don't know how the simulation handles limit orders and bid/ask spreads to know it's feasible, but buying at 4.04 when the current ask is 8.00 seems unlikely. That would mean that all other sell orders between 8.00 and 4.04 were fulfilled, which means that there were very few sellers or that sell pressure spiked, both of which seem unlikely. In reality, it seems more likely that your order would have sat there until the ask dropped to $4.04 (if it ever did), and then you'd have to wait until the bid rose to $7.89 in order to sell them at that price. However, that kind of swing in option prices in not unrealistic. Options near at-the-money tend to move in price at about 50% of the change in the underlying, so if amazon suddenly dropped by $5, the option price could drop by $2.60 (from 6.66 to $4.04), and then rise back to $7.89 if the price rose $8 (which would be 1% swing and not unheard of intra-day). But it sounds like you got very lucky (or the simulation doesn't handle option trading realistically) - I've traded options in the past and have had some breaks similar to yours. I've also had bad breaks where I lost my entire investment (the options expire out-of-the money). So it should be a very limited part of your portfolio, and probably only used for risk management (e.g. buying put options to lock in some gains
Yer not alone in askin ' , and kind strangers have explained : 1 . [ ELI5 : The difference in programming languages . ] ( URL_4 ) ^ ( _ > 100 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why are there so many programming languages ? ] ( URL_0 ) ^(_17 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : The differences between programming languages ] ( URL_1 ) ^(_13 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why are there so many different computer programming languages ? Could it be possible to create one all encompassing programming language ? ] ( URL_2 ) ^(_5 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why are there so many different programming languages that seem to do the same thing ? ] ( URL_3 ) ^(_6 comments _ )
Most sports in the US do n't have a minor league system that anyone pays attention to , so unless you live in a pretty big city , you do n't really have a local team to follow . Plenty of states do n't have a pro sports team in a major league at all . Also , some pro leagues require their athletes to have spent time in college , so there 's a lot of young talent that will soon be in the pros . Couple all of that with a lot of tradition , history , and rivalries .
People have lived in America for thousands of years . They first moved in from Asia via Alaska , and there 's evidence that they settled around the Pennsylvania area around 12,000 years ago . This was known as the Clovis culture , and by the year 1000AD there was around five million people living in North America . Then in 982AD the Vikings arrived at Newfoundland from Greenland . They did n't care much for what they found and did n't get along with the locals much and moved on after a few years . In 1492 Christopher Columbus , on behalf of the Spanish , landed in the Bahamas whilst trying to find the east coast of India . In 1496 John Cabot , on behalf of the British , landed in Newfoundland , and was much more taken with it than the Vikings were , and stuck around . From there , over the next 20 to 40 years , the Spanish started working their way through the USA from the south , through Florida and Texas . Around 1540 , Juan Cabrillo spent time in Mexico and then sent ships up the west coast of the USA and discovered much of California . Around this period in history , the Spanish and British fought like cats and dogs . In 1579 , Sir Francis Drake started claiming bits of California for himself . Meanwhile , Sir Walter Raleigh was claiming bits of the east coast around
1 ) Congress is always mucking around with the tax code right up until the last minute , and companies have to wait to makes sure they 're providing everything required by law . 2 ) The printing , folding , and mailing of tens of thousands ( for many companies ) of all those pieces of paper still takes time . 3 ) Congress sets the date on which they MUST have the forms to you , and there is no incentive to get them to you sooner .
Britain used to trade for tea , but the shipping and the series of middlemen made tea much too expensive for the masses . Then they took over India , causing supply to go up and price to go down , and all the middle class and then poor people wanted to try a taste of the " rich man 's drink . " Eventually tea stopped being something you drank to look posh and became a regular part of the diet . This ties in with the temperance push in the UK during the 1800s . People quit drinking beer and took up tea . Now britons consume both .
Those assets are n't his they belong to the company . consider this You , Joe and Billy want to start a lemonade stand . You bring the stand , he brings the lemons . You and Joe have to go to soccer , so Billy stays behind to run the stand . When you come back , Billy sold the stand to Susie and now your parents that gave you the stand ( investors ) wonder why the stand disappeared and there is no money from selling lemonade .
According to a recent post on reddit , what actually happens ( in the US at least ) is that they go on paid leave while two investigations ( a criminal and then an administrative one ) take place , only after which will any charges be brought against them . This is additionally complicated by the fact that evidence gained during the administrative investigation can not be used in court , but lying or refusing to answer a question is grounds for dismissal of the officer . What generally apparently happens is that by the time this process has taken place , the media no longer cares and has moved on to some other story .
There are some very good responses in here , and I have to give props to hpcisco7965 for the in depth historical context . Just for fun , and in the spirit of ELI5 , I 'm going to do my best to reduce the definition as simply and straightforwardly as I can : * Modernism was a literary , art , and cultural movement that focused heavily on representation and constructed meanings . For instance , modern art expected viewers to draw complex conclusions from that which did not otherwise appear to " mean " anything . Literature wanted to create complex meaning between events , characters , symbols , etc . in a way many readers would consider over - analyzing . * Postmodernism is a rejection of that . At first , it was anything that critiqued ( often satirically ) this line of thinking . Imagine a piece of modern art that is n't * supposed * to mean anything . * At postmodernism developed , it became a way to deconstruct * everything . * Postmodernists went on to assert that nothing has actual meaning other that what we have decided .
Short answer : Because they can if people are willing to pay . Long answer : Clubs have a limited number of people they can let in , usually based on fire codes . They do n't want people to show up and just take up space , especially if the club is paying for entertainment . Someone who is going to balk at a $ 10 cover probably is n't going to buy a lot of drinks anyway .
It 's really pretty simple , once you understand how a basic principle like combustion can be expanded upon . Let 's start at the beginning . Imagine that you have something that explodes , such as gunpowder . If you took some gunpowder , put it under a rock , and blew it up , the rock would move . Simple , right ? This is because the explosion produces heat and gas , which take up more space than the powder did , and so they have to push away from each other really fast to balance out the pressure . The problem is that you would n't be able to control * where * the rock was moving . So you put it inside a tube , with the gunpowder ( or , to bring things along to engines , gasoline ) at the bottom . Now the expansion can only go one way - up , out of the tube . Put your rock , or in this case , cylindrical hunk of metal , on top of that , and it 's going to be reliably pushed up every time . ( This is also the idea behind cannons , muskets , and firearms . ) The problem here is that , if you want to do this more than once , you 're going to have to pick your rock or object up and put it back in the tube again , because it
It 's worth noting that many aspects of the model minority stereotype are actually supported by statistics . There is a somewhat recent [ Pew study ] ( URL_0 ) about Asian - Americans . Compared to other races , they are statistically more likely to be academically successful , have higher incomes by at least one measure , and various other things . Even more than white people . So in one sense , Asians are seen as model minorities because it 's slightly true . The standard criticism of that is that not all Asians fit image -- it applies to Northeast Asians ( Chinese , Japanese , Korean ) and Indians more than others : Laotian , Cambodian , and Vietnamese - Americans show lower - than - average statistics . Why ? Part of it is that the people who immigrate from Northeast Asia and India to the US happen to be the cream of the crop -- educated , motivated , smart people . They come because they want to and can . On the other hand , many from Laos and Cambodia refugees or desperate people . They come because they must . The reasons for this difference have to do with conditions in the origin countries ; I do n't know enough about that to answer .
Looking at the first time might not do too much for us , maybe more interesting to see what happened when the states got free to set their own minimum wages as it creates a bit of a ideal laboratory for us . in between 1997 - 2007 the federal minimum wage did n't change but states fluctuated theirs and the overall consensus is that raising the minimum wage in no way leads to fewer jobs in the economy . You can read more about it in the study * " Why Does the Minimum Wage Have No Discernible Effect on Employment ? " , the Center for Economic and Policy Research * You can also read more about it from * " Minimum Wage Effects Across State Borders " , Institute for Research on Labor and Employment at the University of California , Berkeley * This study compared all neighboring counties in the U.S. located on different sides of a state border with different minimum wage levels between 1990 and 2006 and found no adverse employment effects from higher minimum wages . So we know that raising the minimum wage does not negatively affect employment , so what about the other stuff ? Well , raising the minimum wage generates several benefits , it has been shown to reduce staff turnover and it also increases the disposable income of low wage earners stimulating consumption . An added benefit is also that a lot of minimum wage earners will be
' Color ' is a categorization of the electromagnetic spectrum that our eyes are capable of transforming into neural signals . Objects do not inherently represent our categorization of them . If your question is if when an object receives electromagnetic radiation , does it absorb , reflect , and transmit specific frequency ranges of that radiation , then yes .
This is a complicated question , all of the following numbers are purely speculative for getting my point across . For each gear , there is a range of speeds that the engine can produce . First gear is something like 0 to 20 , second gear is roughly 5 to 40 , third is 20 to 60 . These numbers are very subjective , I 'm just showing that the speeds overlap . In first gear , you can do , let 's say 15 mph while the engine is turning at 4000rpm . When you shift to 2nd you can do the same 15 mph while the engine only turns at 1500rpm . When you downshift back to first , the engine has no choice but to speed back up , but , if you are n't giving it gas , it does n't want to , and the car 's wheels have no choice but to slow down . The engine will speed up a little , but the wheels also slow down . If you jump down 2 gears you potentially have enough momentum to force the engine to turn faster then it was designed and you can blow the engine or strip the gearbox . I hope this answers your question . If not just let me know .
> No two organisms share the same dna , That is not true , identical twins share the same DNA . And it is entirely possible to have through random change a person with similar DNA on the most visible things , and get away with makeup , wax noses , a hairpiece etc . on the rest if you want to get really close .
Different countries have different copyright laws . When Spotify or Netflix is released in new country they have to make sure they are n't breaking any local laws and so forth . Also some companies own local copyrights to certain albums . It would suck if some Serbian guy owned the copyright of all songs from Rick Astley in Serbia and then sued Spotify because they accidentally put his songs in their service .
There are a couple of reasons : 1 . Patients lie to non - providers ( non - doctors ) . Many patients are embarrassed to tell a nurse " Something is wrong with my penis / vagina / butt . " 2 . Providers ( doctors ) are typically pretty busy . They may not have a chance to read the nurse notes before they enter the room with the patient , so it may be quicker to just ask you again . 3 . Providers generally do n't trust anyone but other providers because of the extra liability , so they are making sure their non - provider resources did n't screw up . Yes , this is anecdotal , but is typically very true .
The friendship paradox says that you have fewer friends than your friends have . What skews the figures is that you 're more likely to be friends with popular people . You are less likely to be friends with lonely people . For example , you 're more likely to be friends with a super cool party dude , because he 's out there getting numbers doing cool stuff . You are less likely to be friends with a guy who sits at home reading books . Therefore , you have fewer friends than party guy , and you feel bad about that . But whilst you also have more friends than book guy , you 'll never find that out because you 'll never meet him and become friends , because he never leaves the house . It 's a bit like if you signed up for a club for rich people . You 'll find that the average club member has more money than you . * Because it 's a club for rich people * . Now swap money for social awesomeness and you have the friendship paradox explained .
Truck driver here , Weigh stations are there to make sure that commercial vehicles such as semi trucks are not over weight for the roads that they are traveling on because an over weight semi would not be able to stop as fast as normal , they may blow tires , and/or may cause other parts to break under pressure also it could cause damage to the road ways or piping under the road ways As to why they are mostly closed is because lack of funds to keep them operating , such as paying the operators or keeping the scale in operating condition
Always cite sources . If you 're quoting directly , put it in quotation marks and indicate the source . If you re - word information that you got from somewhere else , you should still cite it but do n't put it in quotes . But if the information is common knowledge , i.e. , the sky is blue , George Washington was the first president of the US , etc , it 's not necessary to cite . Depending on what you 're writing and what it 's for , the standards for citations will vary . For some things , you need to mark every individual use of a certain source with footnotes , endnotes or parenthetical notation . For some things , just putting a list of sources ( bibliography ) at the end is enough .
I 'm not an expert but I tried to sum up some information ... The German Pirate Party was founded in September 2006 . First their aims and goals were mainly focused on digital copyright and internet , as you mentioned . I guess this is why they became popular for young people in the first place . Their first real success was last year in Berlin ( apart from the big Germany - wide elections , every federal state has own small elections ) and they managed to get 8,9 % of the votes ( in Berlin ) and therefore made it into the federal state government . It turns out that not only young people but also a big amount of nonvoters were attracted by this party . The success was rather surprising for everyone , including the Pirates themselves . Ever since , they are trying to get a proper party manifesto . They do n’t have opinions on everything yet but they i.e. want free education for everyone ( get rid of university fees ) , free public transportation , they want to make democracy more accessible and transparent for the citizens , they oppose nuclear energy – just to name a few . This year they made it into two more federal state governments and they try hard to get organized . They are still newcomers and not experienced in politics . But it seems as if their success makes them even more attractive for
An international Outlook (in this case Sweden in European Union). According to laws and regulations large cash transactions are considered conspicuous. The law makers might have reasoned is that cash transactions can be used in as example: - financing terrorism - avoiding taxes - buying or selling illegal goods such as drugs or stolen items - general illegal transactions such as paying bribes Starting there, all banks (at least in Europe) are required to report all suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities (in Sweden it is Finanspolisen, roughly the Financial Police). This is regardless of how the transactions are performed, in cash or otherwise. In order to monitor this all banks in Sweden are required to "know the customers", as example where does money come from and go to in general. In addition special software monitors all transactions and flags suspicious patterns for further investigation and possibly notification of the police. So, at least in Sweden: there is no need to get permission from the FBI to withdraw cash. You will however be required to describe the usage of the Money and your description will be kept and possibly sent to the Financial police. The purpose is not to hinder legitimate transactions, but to Catch illegal activities.
In its simplest sense , libertarianism is about * individual freedom * . The idea is that as much as possible everyone is free to do what they like as long as they are n't interfering with anyone else . If people want to work together to do things , that 's cool , but no - one is forced to do anything if it can be helped . So they tend to believe that the government should be small or barely there , taxing very little if at all , and doing just what 's needed to keep the rule of law etc . It 's all a little hard to pin down though , a lot of different philosophies call themselves ' libertarian ' and disagree with one another . But generally individual freedom is the key value .
Free universities in these European countries are much , much harder than in America . In America you practically have to try to fail unless you 're in a seriously heavy - duty school , whereas in France getting the equivalent of an A is almost unheard - of . I know France at least used to be heavily market - driven with their high - tier universities as well , like a company would say it 'll need fifteen biochemists in four years and the university will open up fifteen biochemistry slots , with some extra for drop - outs .
Pretend that linux , windows , and mac are * * toy lego cars * * . The * * windows car * * comes with all the pieces you need , and a standard set of instructions . It 's pretty easy to put together , does n't cost too much , and is really popular ( you can easily get someone else to make a windows car for you ) . Because it is so popular , all the additions you can add on to your car like a laser cannon or bigger wheels fit right out of the box . Every lego set is made to work with the windows car . What you ca n't really change though is the main engine of the lego car . It gets made at the windows factory and you 're not allowed to open that lego piece up . Its workmanship is somewhat questionable , but it works okay and does most everything you want . The * * mac car * * gets sent to you already made from the factory using its own special legos . It looks really sweet and is super easy and fun to drive . It does n't do everything you want , but everything it does do it does really well . It 's somewhat popular , so a lot of the addons guys will make an addon using the special mac legos too . You ca n't change the engine and
As a computer geek & student , we tend to hate Windows 8 because it seems like a sellout . Windows 7 was great because it had a clean feel to it and it worked great . Same with XP . Windows 8 looks like something I would give a toddler to play with . The windows phones are n't as popular and they seem to want to try to turn that into a useable computer console . Yeah if everyone had touch screens it 'd be great but the majority of users are not going to go out and buy a new computer just so they can use 8 . There was very little integration between 7 and 8 . They threw users into a new interface that nobody really knows anything about and is bulky . It will take off but like CNN reported today , it 's likely that 8 will not hit mainstream use until 2015 .
Certified public accountant ( CPA ) working for a Big 4 here . To be a CPA , you will need to pass a 4 - part exam and other strict state requirements . In my opinion , Public accounting is more demanding with regard to hours . Busy season ( January - April ) may require you to work until 7 , midnight , or even 2 am depending on the firm and the engagement . A lot of people choose public because you learn more and the potential jobs after that are generally better . Another personal opinion : big clients tend to have better management and better budget , which might translate to better work hours and better quality of life . I ’m very happy where I ’m at but I know not everyone is .
Imagine you 've been to Florida a few times , and you really enjoy it . Maybe you 'd like to own a vacation home there , but you ca n't afford it , or it does not make sense for you to buy a home / condo if you would only use it a week or two a year . Let 's say you can find 25 other people who are in a similar position : they 'd each like to go to Florida for a week or two every year , but that 's all . So , you all agree that if you pool your money , you can buy a beach house . Then , you divvy up the weeks , and everyone gets two weeks per year to have the house . What you own is the right to use the vacation house for two weeks every year . Now you can probably see some problems with arranging that , like how to get all 25 people to agree on the property , price , week divisions , etc . So , to solve that , a company takes control of the property . The company is now responsible for finding people to buy " shares " of the house . They are responsible for the upkeep of the house , too ( but the " share owners " have to pay them a fee every year ) . Companies that manage the time shares
There 's no such thing as " dying of old age with no other causes " ... there are always other causes . One common killer is pneumonia , but lots of diseases can step in and finish you off . The problem with old age is that your body just gets weaker and weaker at defending / healing itself . At some point diseases that a healthy adult body would laugh up become massively dangerous infections . Dying of " old age " is more of a euphemism for " they died because they were old and could n't fight off some disease , nothing unexpected or abnormal . "
I can only speak for my country ( Germany ) here . We have a maximum length depending on the number of axles . There is 13.5 m for 2 axles , 15 m for 3 or more axles and 18,75 m for a bus with a hinge . If you were to make the bus more aerodynamic then you 'd loose at least 2 seats , maybe more . Same goes for trucks . At some point in the past a German politician ( ca n't remember who ) wanted to give trains the advantage over trucks and introduced a maximum length for them so they could n't carry as much cargo . The industry 's response was to move the driver 's cabin from behind the motor to above the motor to create more space for cargo .
All languages evolve over time . The Latin language spread out and , as languages do , evolved in different ways in different areas to give us the modern Romance languages Italian , French , Spanish , Portuguese and so on . Even when Latin was still being spoken as Latin , it changed from one generation to the next . The early Romans spoke Old Latin , which evolved into the Classical Latin which is what we usually think of as " Latin " , and which went through many changes over its lifetime ; changes continued throughout the Mediaeval period and the Renaissance . Latin is still spoken in the Vatican , of course , which is in Rome , and has the world 's only ATM that can display instructions in Latin . But it 's not the same Latin the Romans spoke : it 's a later version , Ecclesiatical Latin . All these versions of Latin were those spoken by the educated people . Ordinary people spoke vulgar Latin ( " vulgar " simply means " of the people " and does n't mean " obscene " ) , which again varied from place to place and through the generations -- just as most of us today speak a version of English that you would n't expect to hear the US President use in his State of the Union address . And there is one version of this vulgar Latin that has survived to this
There is only so much to learn by landing on the.moon , and its very expensive to do . You only need to go a few times to verify that , '' yep , still a bunch of dust and nothing to do " . A moonbase , while seemingly awesome , would really have no purpose . We ca n't farm there , no real way to establish commerce , and there is no purpose at this point . If we somehow discover vast petroleum deposits , and there is some economical way to bring it back to earth ... then maybe .
Art is meant to entertain . Because life has no definite purpose , art is created in order to help give life purpose , or at least take our minds off of life 's lack of purpose . Almost anything can be considered an art . Paintings that depicts realistic looking scenes like landscapes and portraits do this in a very closed - ended way . That is , if it 's a painting of a tree , there 's really only one way to interpret that painting . However , abstract art like that of Pollack and all of the other artists you 've mentioned , fill the void of existance in a more open - ended way . Their paintings are meant to inspire feelings just like any other painting , but the viewer has more of a choice in what feelings are being inspired because they have more choice in what they are seeing .
You know how I finally managed to swim farther than my brother ? I held nothing in for the way back . It would n't make sense if every salmon only had one baby before dying . That would be a huge risk for very little profit . But salmon make a long journey away from the ocean to lay thousands of eggs in the best possible place for their spawn to grow up . They 're basically spending everything they have to spawn a large number of offspring under ideal conditions . In other species the chance to mate is very rare . For example because they live in very extreme environments . Under those circumstances it 's important to make the most of it to make sure the offspring get 's a good start . In some species this means the female will eat the male ( with or without his cooperation ) , it means the female get 's a good meal in a place where food is scarce . Some species simply only need to mate once . Many social insects like bees and ants have a queen that only mates once , this one mating provides her with all the sperm to keep laying eggs for a lifetime . In these species males only have on purpose , impregnate a queen and then they 're completely useless . Often the males in these species are only born during a time when queen 's will take
Actual ELI5 : Scientists have looked out into space and have seen that everything seems to be moving away from everything else , like bits of shrapnel flying away from an explosion . If those bits are flying away from each other , then we can assume there must have been a point when they were all together . Knowing the rate that they are flying apart , and a few other observational points , scientists have estimated that everything in our universe was at a singular point of energy 13.82 billion years ago . Right now that 's a " good enough " answer for when time began , because that 's the furthest point back that we can measure .
There are a couple of simple strategic resons . [ Here is a simple map of Ukraine first ] ( URL_3 ) * [ The gas and oil pipelines running through Ukraine ] ( URL_0 ) which supply the major European markets . Russia having been dependent on energy exports for growth and revenue treats those like literal * lifelines * . Without energy revenue Russian economy collapses.[Here ] ( URL_1 ) is a better view of where the pipelines go across Ukraine - notice that some of them supply Russian territory in Caucasus . Remember the recent news that a member of Joe Biden 's family was put on a board for a company owning and operating some pipeline ? That 's how Ukrainian government tries to safeguard US and EU interest in this mess . * [ Eastern Ukraine which is inhabited Ukrainians speaking Russian and some ethnic Russians ] ( URL_4 ) is the industrial heartland of the country . Donetsk and Kharkiv are to Ukraine what Rhine - Ruhr is to Germany . It would make an attractive addition to Russian economy - even informally - and would further weaken Ukraine making it more dependent on Russia or other URL_2 made sense to protect Ukrainian integrity with Yanukovych in power because that part of population helped to shape Ukrainian politics [ as these maps show ] ( URL_5 ) . With Yanukovych out , opposition in shambles and the pro - Western bloc triumphant there 's
Well there are two things you could be asking , how a nuclear reaction takes place , and what physically happens inside the bomb to make it go off . For the sake of simplicity I 'm going to talk about the only two bombs ever used in anger , the Little Boy and Fat Man bombs used on Japan in WWII . Both of these bombs use a process known as Fission , which literally mean the splitting of something into two parts . In this case what we are splitting are atoms . An atom , in the most basic sense is made up of a nucleus , and electrons that orbit it , sort of the same way moons orbit planets ( [ here is a picture for reference ] ( URL_1 ) ) . The goal of a fission reaction is to cause the nucleus to become unstable and break apart which releases the electrons from their orbits to shoot off in all different directions . This is in essence what any explosion is , a very rapid uncontrolled release of electrons . * * So how do they do that ? * * First you need to pick the right atom to split . Some elements are too stable , and others do n't have enough electrons to make the reaction worthwhile . There are 4 different materials you can use to create a fission reaction ; two types of uranium , and two types
Have a seat , son . You 're gon na enjoy this one . We 're not 100 % percent sure on this ( as we 're talking science here ) , but for all intents and purposes we scientists have gotten this thing figured out . These two guys names Miller and Urey did a cool experiment to prove all this , appropriately named the Miller - Urey experiment . Still , like some of your friends said already , this is n't really about evolution just yet . See , a long , long time ago , when the Earth was just a big ball of rock with some water on it , yet nobody living on it-- not you , mommy , nor daddy , Spot , Mrs. Fimmel from down the street , that squirrel who ate your watermelon plant , and not even that watermelon plant that the squirrel ate-- something awesome started happening . Little things called atoms , that are so tiny nobody can see them , started coming together in the water . When they were given the shock , like a jolt of electricity , while being surrounded by lots and lots of gases that made up the Earth 's sky back then , they would come together to form something called RNA . Not only that , but we also got lots of amino acids , sugars , and lipids . Now , RNA is super important because it can
Due to a neurological condition , I have on a few occasions in my life spent upwards of a week asleep with brief ventures for water and the bathroom ( very rarely food ) . I understand why we ca n't go without food or water , but I 've always been curious about how I managed to stay asleep so long . I always compared it to hibernation .
The law says only the United States Postal Service may deliver to post office boxes . Also , if the package needs to be signed for , a PO box can not do this . On the other hand , it 's not unusual for companies such as The UPS Store , FedEx / Kinko 's ( not to mention many mom n ' pop stores ) to offer mailboxes that do n't belong to the USPS , and one can have packages * not * shipped by the USPS delivered to such boxes . And during business hours , there * will * be someone there to sign for the package .
Computer simulation is the process of mathematical modelling, performed on a computer, which is designed to predict the behaviour of, or the outcome of, a real-world or physical system. The reliability of some mathematical models can be determined by comparing their results to the real-world outcomes they aim to predict. Computer simulations have become a useful tool for the mathematical modeling of many natural systems in physics (computational physics), astrophysics, climatology, chemistry, biology and manufacturing, as well as human systems in economics, psychology, social science, health care and engineering. Simulation of a system is represented as the running of the system's model. It can be used to explore and gain new insights into new technology and to estimate the performance of systems too complex for analytical solutions. Computer simulations are realized by running computer programs that can be either small, running almost instantly on small devices, or large-scale programs that run for hours or days on network-based groups of computers. The scale of events being simulated by computer simulations has far exceeded anything possible (or perhaps even imaginable) using traditional paper-and-pencil mathematical modeling. In 1997, a desert-battle simulation of one force invading another involved the modeling of 66,239 tanks, trucks and other vehicles on simulated terrain around Kuwait, using multiple supercomputers in the DoD High Performance Computer Modernization Program. Other examples include a 1-billion-atom model of material deformation; a 2.64-million-atom model of the complex protein-producing organelle of all living organisms, the ribosome, in 2005; a complete simulation of the life
There are countries that have our back ( Turkey , Saudi Arabia , UAE ) . But the main reason is that it 's too sticky of a situation , Obama claims that Assad was the one using the chemical weapons but there 's not strong enough proof that it was actually him using it to kill civilians . So many of the western countries ( the ones I 'm guessing you 're referring to when you say that no one else has our back ) are not willing to risk intervening until we have conclusive evidence that it was Assad . They do n't want a repeat of Iraq .
Neuroscientists here . First off , the neurochemical mechanisms behind dreaming are not fully understood . To give you an idea of the complexity were talking here , Ambien and benzodiazepines ( xanax , valium , etc . ) both hit the same active site on the same GABA receptor subtype ( meaning that they work , pharmacologically identically , as far as we know ) . Yet , while Ambien causes crazy hallucinations and bizarrely vivid dreams , the benzodiazepine class does not ( normally ) . What I could hypothesises is this : if a drug has a significant effect on the norepinephrine , acetylcholine , or serotonin , it will have a strong effect on your sleep cycle , as [ these particular neurotransmitters are integral to the various stages of sleep ] ( URL_1 ) . Of these , something that effects acetylcholine ( like benadryl and scopolamine ) would presumably have a greater effect on dream alteration , [ as acetylcholine levels raise significantly during REM sleep ] ( URL_0 ) . Since acetylcholine is also integral to memory consolidation , it would make sense that a change in that system could cause distortion in the recall of your day 's memories as the brain tries to rehash them during REM , which could you to experience some bizarre dreams . While that last sentence is * based * on factual information , it 's nothing more than an educated guess . I hope this
I think they kept it too long in invite only , but other reasons might contribute to why it has n't caught on . I do think that the more Google pushes it as a platform to access or use their other products , its popularity will increase . Some people say that 's unfair or shady , but it 's actually good business .
The cause of the increase in 2006-2011 was the financial crisis, where, if you recall, the global banking system came close to collapse for reasons that are well documented. Rightly or wrongly, gold is seen as a safe haven asset in times of crisis. The price of gold began to decline in 2011 when the markets decided that the risk of a global banking system collapse had passed without further incident. In the period leading up to 2006, the price of gold was in a flat-to-down trend because there was little net buying interest in gold and large gold sales had been executed by various central banks around the world who felt that gold no longer had a place in central bank reserves. In modern economies gold is seen as a "fringe" asset. It has no role to play. The recent financial crisis may have dented that perception, but those dents are now being forgotten and the price of gold is returning to its long-term downward trend. When the next financial/banking crisis is upon us, the price of gold will again (probably) rally. The extent of the rally will depend on the extent of the crisis.
My wife works part time as a therapeutic support staff for young children with autism , so she would be able to answer this better than me . But I 'll give it a try . Autism is a developmental disorder characterized by a lack of empathy to some degree . The word is derived from auto , meaning self , implying the person is incapable of perceiving the world outsode of themselves to some degree . In the most mild forms of autism , including Asperger 's , the person can often function normally and may even be a savant ( extremely gifted in a specific area ) , but they have trouble reading social situations and conveying emotion . Imagine you are upset because your friend 's carpet is too blue . To an average person this would n't even be a problem , or you might jokingly tell your friend you do n't like his carpet . To someone with Asperger 's , who does n't understand sarcasm or tact , they might think its perfectly appropriate to begin screaming at the carpet for being too blue , or at their friend for having such a blue carpet , or at their parents for bringing them to a place with such a blue carpet . And they lack the skills to explain why blue carpets bother them , which makes it even more frustrating . Children with Asperger 's are often easily distracted and have a hard
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb , Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus (1961), Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus (1963–1964), and Nancy Van de Vate .A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens (1737–38), where chaos is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale (Henck 2004, pp. 52–54).A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 (Nonesuch H-71280) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.The use of "chords approaching timbres" begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental parts so that they would fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass (Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21).Other examples include European "textural" compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima (1959) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères (1961) and his Requiem (1963-65).Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa , Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .Sound mass techniques also appear in the music of George Crumb (Anon. n.d.).
Because we learn to tolerate pain , and how to handle it . As a child , when they fall , they do n't know what to do , so they cry for help . As we get older we realize " Oh , I fell , well I need to get up , check myself , and put a bandaid on any cuts " We may still cry a little involuntarily , but that 's more of an instinct , or an involuntary reflex ( watery eyes when getting hit in the nose )
It 's simple ; the hand sanitizer does not reach every tiny bit of your hand ! There are germs all over your hand unfortunately , and some of them are hidden or concealed quite well . Hand sanitizer can rid you of enough germs to deem your hands safely clean , but it would be unrealistic to try and kill every single germ on your hand , simply because of how many there are and how small they are . However , do not think there is an immortal germ out there that can not be killed . It is just the same mortal germs that are sneaky little buggers .
You will most likely not be able to avoid some form of format conversion, regardless of which data you use since there is, afaik, no standard for this data and everyone exports it differently. One viable option would be, like you said yourself, using the free data provided by Dukascopy. Please take into consideration that those are spot currency rates and will most likely not represent the rate at which physical and business-related exchange would have happened at this time.
Obviously we ca n't dig to find out ; so we use earthquake 's tectonic waves . The propagation speed of the waves is affected by the density of the matter ; they also reflect when the density suddenly changes . This way , we can determinate the speed of the original waves , thus the density of the crust . That 's why we know there is something really dense at the core - a metal . How do we know it is made of iron , I 'll let someone else answer .
I guess you have never been really hungry . Not an insult I just mean humans do the same thing its just we can just feed our selves or drink water or something to stop the hunger before it gets to that point . As a former homeless dude I have been that hungry you start to drool and it burns in your belly till you just got to let it out . hurts . it sucks .
The data was represented as audio on the tape . When loading a program from tape the computer would listen to the noises - usually lots of screeching - and understand them as the bytes of the program which it could then run from its memory . We used to use a similar technique to access the intent using a normal phone line - your computer would call another computer and they would screech at each other to send data back and forth . So yes tapes are just audio but you can represent computer code as audio !
Are these all of the taxes or is there any additional taxes over these? Turn-over tax is not for retail investors. Other taxes are paid by the broker as part of transaction and one need not worry too much about it. Is there any "Income tax" to be paid for shares bought/holding shares? No for just buying and holding. However if you buy and sell; there would be a capital gain or loss. In stocks, if you hold a security for less than 1 year and sell it; it is classified as short term capital gain and taxes at special rate of 15%. The loss can be adjusted against any other short term gain. If held for more than year it is long term capital gain. For stock market, the tax is zero, you can't adjust long term losses in stock markets. Will the money received from selling shares fall under "Taxable money for FY Income tax"? Only the gain [or loss] will be tread as income not the complete sale value. To calculate gain, one need to arrive a purchase price which is price of stock + Brokerage + STT + all other taxes. Similar the sale price will be Sales of stock - Brokerage - STT - all other taxes. The difference is the gain. Will the "Dividend/Bonus/Buy-back" money fall under taxable category? Dividend is tax free to individual as the company has already paid dividend distribution tax. Bonus is tax free event as it does not create
when you use these search engines for everyday use . for example searching " black clothes " each search engine sends out what s called " crawlers " and it travels from link to link path to path across the surface web(everything assailable by typical search engines ) . all websites ect . on the surface are connected . that s why up on the omni bar you see a bunch of code and then black+clothes and such.its like a more in depths ctrl+F. in the end both work and do very well . google just has been on the scene much longer and is more universally loved you could say.(trying not play favorites as i love google ) . googles also been at it a very long time . in the end they both do the same thing when doing simple search 's .
When figuring out the calories in a portion of food essentially you weight / measure the individual components , calculate the calories in each of the components , and get the total . That s the total number of calories in your " recipe . " Then once you figure out how many items / servings your recipe makes you divide that calorie number . So , lets just do a simple / really basic example . Lets say your recipe is a fruit salad calling for : 100 g Apples : 55 calories 100 g Banana : 90 calories 100 g Grapes : 70 calories So your total bowl has 215 calories . Now lets say you 're splitting this into two portions . Each would have 108 calories . The same thing for nutrition labels except on a larger scale .
Woman usually do n't travel alone ( important bit of information ) . For you to go up to a group of women by yourself all focus is on you and it 's clear that your objective is to try to pick - up one of them . Having a wingman makes you seem like you were just out as well having a good time with your friend , so that 's disarming . Also , since girls will travel in at least a pair , let 's say you do start to talk to one of them , she does n't feel bad about ignoring her friend since your wingman 's duty is to chat with the other , usually less attractive , female .
Same as sandblasting , except mixed with water and concentrated into a fine point . Instead of the sandblast spot being several inches in diameter and taking off a few millimeters of thickness with each pass , the waterjet is a few millimeters in diameter and can punch all the way through the material in one pass . If you 've ever used a regular pressure washer , you know that you could use the fine pinpoint tip to gouge into wood at only ~1500 - 3000 PSI . Now raise that up to 50,000 PSI and make the pinpoint even smaller , and boom you have waterjet technology .
It has to do with muscle relaxation and neurotransmitters during the sleep cycle . In certain stages of sleep , your brain tells all the * * skeletal * * muscles in your body to relax , and become " un - tense " . ( Skeletal muscles are the ones you control ) . Depending on which stage you might wake up in , you could have difficulty clenching your fists ( or balancing yourself if you stand up as soon as you wake ) .
Energy ca n't be created or destroyed , only converted from one form to another . The electronics in your phone ca n't remove the energy from your phone 's battery , they just convert nice useful electrical energy into less useful energy like heat ( and a little bit of light for the screen and some sound , perhaps ) . It 's in this conversion from higher order energy into lower order that they can do some useful work . The chips in your phone have to do more work if they 're running a GPS receiver or playing games ; so your battery drains more and your phone gets hotter . Ultimately , electricity is running through more wires , and all wires act as tiny heaters to some extent . Obviously , chip manufacturers try to minimise the amount of heat generated , but some is always necessary .
Generally whenever China has been strong , Tibet has been part of it . But because it is so geographically and culturally different from China , it has always had either a high level of autonomy or full independence . Mao and the Communists , as well as the Nationalists on Taiwan , want China to be strong ; this has always meant control over Tibet . Modern technology , and the way that countries are now organised , means that the kind of autonomy Tibet had in the past is no longer possible . This means that they can A ) be pulled into China and lose their cultural and political autonomy , or B ) become a completely independent and separate country . China wants the first option , Tibetans want the second . In ELI5 terms : Tibet has always been a strange part of China . Modern technology means that this can not continue . China wants it to become a normal part of China , Tibet wants to preserve its differences by becoming independent . For now China is winning . EDIT : You might want to post this on r / askhistorians ( URL_0 ) if you want a more complete and technical answer .
I can give an objective opinion as an economist typically categorized as " conservative / libertarian / capitalist / wacko " in a political discussion . I 'm also European so my perspective is a bit different here and I have no political preferences when it comes to US political circus . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ What is wrong with your question / suggestion is that it tries to understand the problem from the same biased , narrow - minded perspective as most of the opponents of minimum wage hike on Fox or CBS business or whatever . The problem with minimum wage is n't whether it would increase cost of goods or services . The problem is how it would effect the everyday workings of the economy how it would affect the way companies hire people , which companies struggle and which do n't , which jobs would disappear temporarily and which permanently . The economy as a whole is a huge resilient system that can handle and take a lot . It 's the little people however who can have their whole lives turned upside down by one small change . To respond to your main question however - In most cases the price increase would be minimal if the minimum wage did not exceed $ 10 - 11 for the expensive states ( Conn. , Mass. , NY , Ca . ) and $ 8 - 9 for the cheaper states ( Tex . Miss. ) It probably would n't
There 's a big buckle in the jet stream . A lovely aspect of North America is polar air can be completely uninterrupted directly from the North Pole . With no moderating ocean to warm that up , it can travel a long ways south if upper level winds allow it to . Warm air can also do the same going northward , but this is more common in the summer when the normal jet stream is shifted well north .
Google is not untouchable . They 're still looking for their second big source of income . Right now it 's all advertising / search . Just as MS has n't really found anything big outside of software licensing ( Windows , Office and some Biz stuff ) . The difference is , Google 's core market is still growing , while MS 's ( PCs ) , is not growing anymore .
A party I had at my house got busted ( we were shooting my 12ga shotgun for every time we made a beer pong cup ) cops came in with AR15 's drawn , looked around , started laughing their asses off when they saw what we were doing . They made me pour out the alcohol ( I was 19 at the time ) took my weed and pipe and let us off . They smoked my weed in my driveway . Ai n't even mad .
There are two psychological terms , " ingroup " and " outgroup " that could explain a large portion of this . When you say " their own people " , i guess you presume that police and military perceive all inhabitants of their own country as their ingroup . This is most definitely not the case . Due to ( unconscious ) conditioning " on the job " , paired with how the brain evolutionary works , people wearing a uniform will very quickly start to perceive everyone that is wearing the same uniform ( or hat , or feathers ) as the ingroup , and the rest as the outgroup . In hunter gatherer days this was a very efficient way to know who your friends were and who your enemies were . So police officers and soldiers will very quickly be psychologically able to perceive everyone that is not in their same uniform as some sort of outgroup . ( But not necessarily also as enemies , just not as " belonging to my group " = more caution ( aka faster and stronger * fight * or flight responses ) A phenomenon that often comes paired with outgroup perceptions is a phenomenon called de - humanization . From wikipedia : " the denial of “ humanness ” to others . Is theorized to take on two forms : animalistic dehumanization , which is employed on a largely intergroup basis , and mechanistic dehumanization , which is
Hello. You have experienced a very normal behavior of bleeding patterns after Plan B usage. The bleeding ideally starts after one week and starts with scanty, then the flow increases and then decreases again. This is a normal endometrium shedding pattern after Plan B. You are unlikely to be pregnant now after your periods and bleeding. Just likely that your next menses may be delayed or earlier and maybe heavy, this would be because of Plan B, so just maintain a menstrual calendar for the next three months. Cramping and bloating shall subside after your period as well.
> It does n't effectively make candidates care about smaller states so why ca n't we abolish it ? Do the math , if it was purely a popular election , the people of Wyoming would matter even less then they do now . The reason we do n't get rid of it is because it is n't a problem and the people that think it 's a problem do n't understand it ( and make suggestions like we should get rid of it to help the small states )
Imagine baseball . Only instead of a diamond , home and first base are one long stripe on the grass ( called a * pitch * ) , and when you hit the ball away , you run back and forth between them . Each time you touch home or first base ( called a * crease * ) , you get 1 point ( called a * run * ) . But when you go up to bat , there 's already a batter ( batsman ) on first base . When you start running to first , * he * starts running to home . Then , if you think you can make it again , you swap , and swap again . Whoever 's at home base when the ball is returned to the shortstop ( wicketkeeper ) will bat next , and this continues until he 's out , and one of his teammates takes his place . Behind the batter ( batsman ) is a little structure made of four sticks stuck in the ground , called the wicket . The pitcher ( bowler ) is n't trying to get three strikes , he 's trying to knock that structure over . If he does , you 're out . After the pitcher / bowler has bowled 6 times , he 's swapped for one of his teammates . This is called an * over * . There are 11 players to a side ,
Nose bleeds are caused by blood vessels in your nose bursting . See the body is filled with very tiny blood vessels , these are used to bring oxygen to all your cells . During a nosebleed these burst in your nose . They burst because they get over pressured ( think of a balloon popping ) . They get so pressurized , because of something called an ' auto - immune response ' , or allergies . This is caused by your body thinking what your smelling is actually an illness invading your body .
Commonly pictures of the Carribean are taken in shallow water . Shallow water always makes water look more clear , as the bottom will reflect light back to the surface . The other main reason is the sand . Sandy substrate will always have clearer water compared to muddier water . Most of the attractive areas we think of in the Carribean have a lot of sand and this keeps the " local water " very clean as sand is heavier than silt and harder to stir up into the water .
A key misunderstanding of the birthday problem that I had is that I would read about it and think : " If I find * 22 * ( so a group of 23 , not 70 ) other people , there is a 50 % chance that one of them will have the same birthday as me . " However , the probability is n't that any particular person will have a match , but that at least one pair will have a match . It 's much easier to understand the problem when you realize that there are ( ( 23)(22))/2 = * * 253 * * unique pairs in the group . Now reword the conclusion as " Out of 253 pairs of people , there is a 50 % chance that one pair will share a birthday . " EDIT : Very late edit . Multiple people pointed out that I started this answer with a group of 70 people like /u / EpicRisc asked about and ended with a group of 23 people . I made the easiest correction and changed my first number . Sorry folks !
DearWe understand your concernsI went through your details. You had already consulted doctors and they prescribed medicines to you and said there is nothing to worry. In that case, you should accept their opinion and stop worrying. You may consult an urologist if you again want to do so. But, I suggest, make it the last time. Worry, anxiety and obsession is another key basic reason for pains which may not have any medical explanation. The best method is to ignore the pain. You also mention that the pain is after masturbation. Stop masturbating for 15 days and restart. You will get relief. If you require more of my help in this aspect, please use this URL. http://goo.gl/aYW2pR. Make sure that you include every minute details possible. Hope this answers your query. Available for further clarifications.Good luck. Take care.
' Civil Union ' is a word used to grant some of the rights and benefits of marriage , while explicitly denying equal status to the people involved . It 's somewhat akin to legally mandating scare - quotes . Imagine if , instead of earning a degree and getting a job , women could only earn a " degree " and get a " job " .
I do n't know for sure , so this is just a wild guess , but I 'm assuming it has something to do with reddit 's API and allowing calls to be made to the server for each comment . The total number of upvotes and downvotes is obviously stored on reddit 's servers , so the RES most likely just runs a query on the server for that comment i d and gets the upvotes / downvotes . just guessing , but if I had to program it that 's how I 'd do it
The waste products from nuclear power plants can be contained . But its not the case in case of thermal power plants . Thus nuclear fuel is considered clean . All type of energy sources cause damage to the environment more or less during the process of making dams plants etc . But the generation of energy itself is clean and does n't pollute the environment .
Generally speaking , cancer occurs when there is uncontrolled cell growth . Normal cell turnover is a highly regulated process with multiple checkpoints that ensure that abnormal cells die and normal cells live and grow up until a certain point . There are many , many genes that control these processes . In the majority of cancers , multiple genes need to become mutated . This is known as the [ multiple - hit theory of cancer ] ( URL_0 ) . Something that causes cancer , which is called a carcinogen , is something that promotes these multiple mutations to occur . There are many known carcinogens , but most of them cause some sort of damage to cells . This damage prompts normal cells to replicate as part of the healing process . Whenever cells replicate , there is a small but real chance of replication error , where the DNA is n't copied 100 % correctly . However , all it takes is one cell to become cancerous and replicate itself , in order to set the stage for cancer . If there is repeated exposure to damage over time , and millions of cells are replicating , this small chance of DNA replication error becomes a real possibility . It is also important to remember that just because something is a known carcinogen , such as smoking , not everybody who smokes gets cancer . Smoking certainly is an important risk factor because of all the
Engineer here . It has to do with the load limits of each material used . The calculations can be pretty complex . But to ELI5 : If you need a bridge to handle 20 - tons , you determine where that 20 tons will be distributed among the bridge members , and make sure the sheer and tensile strengths of that material are enough to handle it .
Let 's look really quick at what a file consists of . In the end , it comes down to a bunch of 0s and 1s arranged in a specific pattern , right ? A zip file is a form of lossless compression so that you can package data up tight , send it somewhere , and then unpack it so that it will be the exact same as the original . Lossless means that you can take data , compress it , then uncompress it , and get the orignal data back . There are things called lossy compression ( MP3 files specifically ) that compress by averaging out sections of numbers . I can go into this more if you 'd like So , let 's say that you have a bunch of M & Ms all in a line . They 're either Red or Blue , and you have millions all going along . You want to send this pattern to a friend so he can make the same sequence and you guys can talk and stuff while you look at your M & M sequences ( just roll with me here ) . Let 's start by looking for patterns . For the sake of simplicity of the scenario , you find 100 different patterns that repeat . Sometimes your patterns overlap , and it 's up to you to decide if the pattern [ R B B B R R B ] is really
From a Christian : Yes , our gods come from the same cultural origin ( Abraham ) . What differs is out ideas of His manifestation . Christians believe in a personal God who sent his own son in human form , etc , you 've heard the story . Islam and Judaism disregards Jesus as the son of God . Islam regards him as a prophet lesser than Mohammed , and say that Mohammed 's writings are the ones that trump all others . So basically , yes , but we disagree about what they say and do
There are threads in many programs that ca n't be shut down immediately , because they are n't listening for a shutdown order . When you hit End Now , it sends a shutdown order to all threads of the program , but sometimes it takes a while for all of the threads to get that order and shutdown . If the program is n't responding because of an infinite loop , then the thread will never get that order . ( Assuming Windows ) if you go to the task manager and look under the processes tab , you can tell it to kill the process associated with the program , which will destroy the threads by deallocating their resources rather than telling them to shut down .
Too much Fluoride causes thyroid disease . Your body has this really important butterfly shaped organ in your neck called a thyroid . It 's right next to your adam 's apple . It controls your metabolism . In order to work properly , your thyroid needs to absorb iodine . Iodine and fluoride ( and bromide and chloride ) are all part of the same elemental family . But , fluoride , bromide , and chloride ( or chlorine ) are heavier than iodine . They are the bullies of the Halide family . Your thyroid will absorb them , instead of the iodine , and will not be able to work right . This causes diseases like Hypothyroidism , Hyperthyroidism , Graves Disease , Hashimoto 's Disease , and Thyroid Cancer . Until fluoride was added to the drinking water , the frequency of thyroid disease was going down . This was because scientists figured out your thyroid had to absorb iodine in order to work , and they started adding iodine to common table salt . " A tablespoon of salt a day , keeps the goiter away ! " However recently , because people are afraid of getting heart disease , they have n't been eating salt as much . Fluoride was added to drinking water , to make your teeth healthy . Chlorine ( chloride ) was added , as well , to make your water clean enough to drink . Then in the 1970s
Have to jump in on the ' no cure ' part - there actually is a cure ! With some allergies , they can inject you with small amounts of the allergen for a long time , until your immune system gets used to it . The success rate varies but it 's helped quite a lot of people I know .
First we must define " superpower . " Put simply it is a state with a global reach that is disproportionately large to most other states in the international system . Now , at this point I have to say that everything relating to this topic is theory and highly contentious . In the field of international relations ( IR ) there are two major theories , [ realism ] ( URL_0 ) and [ liberalism ] ( URL_1 ) . To add to this there are multiple critical perspectives of these two mainstream perspectives , such as marxism , social constructivism , poststructuralism , feminism , etc . To explain like you 're five , I wo n't go into these different theories except to say that they all give a different perspective and answer to your question . The answer I give will take a realist view , if any . So how do states become superpowers ? Well , firstly they must become regional powers . This can come about a number of ways but in my opinion the ultimate factor in aiding or limiting a state 's chances of becoming a superpower is its geography . A great book is Guns , Germs , and Steel by Jared Diamond which goes to the very heart of the geographic issue and really shows why areas of the earth have been more hospitable than others to human civilisation . I have no idea how to sum that book
I 'll skip the roman numerals to try to make it less confusing , for what it 's worth . Final fantasy 5 was the first game made in its continuity with Legend of the crystals being a sequel . FF7 was the first game made in its continuity , with FF : Crisis Core being the prequel and Dirge of Cerberus being a sequel of sorts . FF Tactics was the first game made in its continuity , with Vagrant Story taking place far in the future , and FF 12 taking place far in the past . FF tactics advanced ... we do n't speak of those . FF 10 was obviously the first game in its continuity followed by FF 10 - 2 FF 13 was once again very obviously the first in the 3 part set with FF13 - 2 and FF13 - 3 As far as I know all other Final Fantasy games are stand alone , and thus none of them come first .. I claim to have zero knowledge of any Final Fantasy MMO so I ca n't speak to those . If you are talking about which Final Fantasy games were mislabeled when being ported to America ... The original was released in both Japan and America , and thus there is no confusion . 2 and 3 were not released in America , so when 4 was ported to the US for the SNES it was released as FF2 in America
The set up is that at the beginning of the game the chance you originally pick losing door is 1/3 , since only one out of three doors is a winner . But the end of the game , right before you switch , the chance your original door is a loser is still 1/3 . * The question and the paradox is why with only two doors left , why is it your chance of still having a losing door is 1/3 , not 1/2 . * * * The answer to the paradox is that when Monty shows you a door , he does not show you a random door , he purposely shows you a door that gives you zero information * * . At the end of the game , nothing has changed . Your chance of winning has not changed . It was 1/3 at the beginning and it is still 1/3 at the end . To explain why that is true , read on . * * Monty Hall Explained * * You know that when you originally pick a door your chance of winning is only 1/3 and that * at least * on of the doors left has a goat . Knowing that , should you give up your door and pick one of the other two doors ? Who knows , maybe yes maybe no ... the chance of any of the 3 doors is the same , 1/3 . The
dear, thanks for consulting, here r some domestic remedies which are very much helpful and free of side effects-1) METHI powder- 1 tablespoon daily after breakfast 2) garlic - 5 gram sunthi-5 gram Nirgundi- 5 gram make decoction of these three in 500 ml of water till it approx 125 ml of liquid is left , take this twice a day empty stomach3) TERPENINE OIL MASSAGE4) HOT water+ salt- fomentation of the affected partREGIMENINDICATIONS( PATHYA)steam bath, fresh hot and easily digestable diet, carrot, methi leaves , green vegetables, garlic, onion, karela, ginger, sunthi, buttermilk, tulsi, curry leaves, black pepper, hot water as drinks and bath are always usefull, along with exercise and yogaCONTRAINDICATIONCURD, COLD WATER ,MILK,URAD-DAL, SUPPRESION OF NATURAL URGES LIKE MICTURITION,FLATUS, brinjal,kaddu , ice cream, unnecessary anxiety, over eating, excess intake of sweets, ghee ,rice, fish ,these all should be avoided till proper improvement.PREVENTIVE ASPECTS1. USE OF HOT WATER AFTER MEAL AS DRINK AND AS BATH WHILE LIVING IN HUMID ATMOSPHERE2. BALANCED DIET HELPS TO PREVENT ARTHRITIS which occurs due to VATA DOSHA ACCORDING TO AYURVEDA....U CAN come back to me after following this a month. good luck dear...i wil be happy to help u again. thanks
Obviously seafood is often kept / transported alive for freshness and when killed tend to rot much faster than land animals . That and in a commercial kitchen , call it numbness or whatever , but there 's little reason when already busy to make the extra effort to kill them " humanely " . Compared to , say , maybe a fish , where you generally have to chop off the head anyways if you 're cutting it up , they can kill it quicker , but there 's no quick way to kill a crab without ruining it before cooking ( I mean , there is n't really a separate head to chop off ) . There are some methods , like shoving an small knife into its brain or quickly ripping its top shell off then smashing the exposed brain , but they all sound nearly equal to me anyways . More humane options might be freezing them for a bit first so they enter a kind of " hibernation " state , which i recommend at home anyways so it makes em easier to manage , but adds an extra step to a commercial kitchen that 's already busy - plus they do n't want to be seen as using " frozen " food . You can also electrically stun them , but most kitchens are n't going to really bother having to buy a specialized instrument just for that .
Taxes are not meant to be used as a tool of social engineering , or wielded to punish specific social class or group . Taxes are a means of raising the money needed to run our current government . Most large economies already have very progressive tax rates already , see for example URL_0 . What is the " right " steepness of the marginal tax rate curve ? If you make it too steep you remove the incentive to work and invest in yourself . Note that tax rates increase sharply at relatively low levels of income . A family of two doctors could easily earn 250 - 350k / year . In order to become a doctor you have to spend 10 + years in various schools and underpaid apprenticeship programs and incurred hundreds of thousands in student loans . Is there anything unfair about doctors earning that much , and should we punish them to restore fairness ? Some argue for a completely flat tax rate curve to simplify the process and remove distortionary influences . Do you know who lobbies against this - Intuit and the other tax preparation companies . Endless tinkering with the tax code is a way for politicians to secure favor with some interest group , whether it be wealthy businesses or individuals or unions and the poor . Needless to say this kind of tinkering is enormously wasteful .
The GTD method is a style of planning that makes you " only think things once " and relies on two things to do it . 1 . Moving the stuff you normally try to keep in your head into a trusted external source that you check regularly . This could be a notepad , a binder , or even a file on your computer . This lowers your overall stress because you do n't have to remember every little thing that normally goes through your head , it 's all right there , the only thing you have to remember is to check it regularly . 2 . Planning out each step in advance . Again , this lowers your stress because you 've done all or most of the thinking beforehand . All you have to do is look at your list , cross off the action you 've just completed and look at it for the next step . It 's like having someone tell you exactly what to do instead of trying to figure it out on the fly . Personally , I like and use a lot of the GTD method , especially the notepad . Every morning I write a list of what I need to do , grouped by how important it is ( i.e. emails , phone calls , getting questions answered ) and work through it as the day goes on . If something comes up I just add it to
Some people remember things better when they hear them too and not " only think " them , so it 's easier to make though chains and " hold the thought " when thinking out loud . You can find yourself doing this when you are repeating some number chain outloud when you have to remember it for the time it takes to read it from somewhere and write it down to another place . Talking also gives you more time to form the sentences than pure thinking . When you " just think " , you can sometimes revert to thinking with consepts and images and memories and not actual structured word chains .
URL_0 This video does a better job than I can imagine myself ever explaining this topic . Summed up , the video states that there is a gas in the fluid surrounding your joints . When you pull or manipulate the joint a certain way , it causes the gas to be pressed out , causing a pop . There are theories on both sides that say it might or might not be harmful over time , but so far it 's not conclusive .
Debt is not bad , nor is it crippling for an economy . Debt is a good thing . * Mismanaged * debt can bad for the debtor . * Widespread * mismanaged debt can be bad for an economy . As for your specific question , if you got rid of debt , all the money would disappear . Every dollar that exists — or euro , or yen , or whatever — is backed by a dollar 's worth of debt . That 's how money works , fundamentally . Get rid of the debt and the money ceases to exist , because they 're two sides of the same ( pardon me ) coin .
Part of it is the culture of the region . The people of that culture used the foods that were available to them to create their meals . Over time , this became socially acceptable . There is another reason , however : generally , most breakfast foods if you notice are rich in protein , fats , and carbs . Take an american breakfast : eggs , bacon , sausages , maybe grits or toast , etc . Take an italian breakfast : coffee with milk , cornetto ( think of it like an italian croissant ) , butter and jelly . Take an lebanese breakfast : labneh ( hard yougurt ) with olive oil , zaatar ( a soft of lebanese pizza ) , maybe some kibbe ( lebanese meat empanada ) , etc etc . Generally , each culture used the foods that they had available to make a meal that allows them to get started on their day .
ELI5 : We are n't quite sure Birthmarks are caused by overgrowth of blood vessels , melanocytes , smooth muscle , fat , fibroblasts , or keratinocytes . The exact cause of most birthmarks is unknown , but vascular birthmarks are not hereditary . They are thought to occur as a result of a localized imbalance in factors controlling the development and migration of skin cells . URL_0
Do you mean in terms of what they do or how they do it . Normal and expensive lawyers handle the same kinds of cases ( generaly ) . The expensive ones tend to handle larger cases but that is not aways the case . The reality is that expensive lawyers are expensive because their clients are rich . They are able to bring more resources into a case than a normal lawyer would . So an expensive lawyer might have a few less experienced lawyers and handful assistances working for them . And a normally priced one might have an assistant . There is an element of knowledge of the law and the ability to wield it as well . IN the same was an expensive doctor is also just more skilled than a normal one , so to will be an expensive lawyer .
Hello!Thank you for the query. Fluid itself does not cause the pain as abdominal cavity constantly produces it as well. Its more the shunt itself causing the pain. You should always be aware of infection which it can cause as well as adhesions around it.I suggest you to consult your surgeon and consider shunt relocation. You should also have abdominal ultrasound, CRP and blood work checked.Hope this will help.Regards.
I grew up in the church and the way it 's always been explained to me relies on an understanding of the Trinity ; you have God the Father , God the Son , and the Holy Spirit . With the exception of some small windows of time , one of these three has been " present " on the Earth at all times . God the Father was present before He sent His son . Shortly after Jesus ascended into Heaven , the Holy Spirit was sent to occupy Earth . You 'll notice , if I 'm not mistaken , that all the instances of God audibly speaking to humans ( with the exception of speaking to Jesus ) are found in the Old Testament . So , the short explanation is that God does n't talk directly to His people because the Holy Spirit is here now to interact with us and the Holy Spirit rarely , if ever , audibly speaks to humans .
API is application programming interface . Like you send a request to a website , giving information like username , password and content that you want to receive . And the website sent you the Information in a organized way so your App / Website can read and work with that . Like you give the website the Location where you are , and it sents you back the temperature , humidity , forecast etc . Usually it comes in JSON ( JavaScript Object Notation IIRC , It 's an Array ) , It 's like a Stats list . I Do n't know what is a RESTful API so I will not talk about that .
There was a study that made headlines indicating some low ABV beers might be better than water , but it was never published and does n't appear to have been repeatable . However , this summary of later studies [ seems to indicate ] ( URL_0 ) that beer with less than 2 % alcohol ( essentially 1 Bud / Coors or similar and 2 cans of water or the ultra light styles ) hydrates about as well as water .
ID is only required if you 're doing something that requires an ID ( for example a drivers license ) . If you 're just walking down the street there is no legal requirement to have ID on your person . HOWEVER . If you are detained due to ' suspicious activity ' and can not provide ID , in some states the police can arrest you on refusing to provide ID when required .
You could , but you 'd need to figure out how quickly your oven heats up as compared to every other oven out there . Recipes are designed to be used by as many different people - and as many different ovens - as possible . The fact is that different ovens heat up at different rates , so recipes would be very hard to do correctly . It 's much simpler to have a given target temperature for the oven and bake in that temperature . 425 degrees is 425 degrees no matter what oven you use ( assuming it 's calibrated correctly ) .
Storyboard artist for a 2d kids show here , The dialogue is recorded first . We listen to it while working out the acting and staging and draw the important poses and expressions that feel natural to the performance of the voice actor . This is called " blocking " . From here the board artist might add some more detailed acting ( as you do in television cartoon production , to make for a faster animation process ) , or if you work in full length features , pass it off to the animator to figure out the really detailed expressions and mouth shapes .
There is no clear demarcation . Cantonese and Mandarin are different languages in most respects , but the government of China considers them dialects of a single Chinese language . Both views have merits . Languages form large continuua where neighbours can understand each other without problems , but those from opposite ends of the territory often ca n't at all . There 's no clear line where there 's a clean break ; no place where on that side they speak X and on that side Y , except where there 's a national border and both sides insist on conformity to a central standard . However , the oft repeated maxim is that " a language is a dialect with an army and a navy " .
The CPA's mention of $2,500 is probably referring to the recently increased de minimis safe harbor under the final tangible property regulations (used to be $500) without an applicable financial statement. The IRS will not challenge your choice of expense or capitalization on amounts on or below $2500 if you elect the de minimis safe harbor election on your return. However, you must follow whatever you're doing for your books. (So if you are capitalizing your laptops for book purposes, you would also need to capitalize for tax purposes). Section 179 allows you to expense property that you would have otherwise have had to capitalize and depreciate. Section 179 can be annoying, especially if your LLC is treated as a passthrough, because there are recapture provisions when you dispose of the asset too early. For the tax return preparer, it makes the return preparation much more simple if there are no fixed assets to account for in the first place, which is quite possible if you are expensive all items/invoices less than $2,500.
They 're not really . By the standards of the cold war , or a non cold war , they 're very far from enemies . They 're two nations that have their own interests which at times are opposed to American interests . They 're not strong allies , and there are some tensions , but they 're not positioned as enemies either .
Hi Dear,Welcome to HCM.Understanding your concern.Thanks for your concern . The lumps under your jaw are most probably swollen lymph nodes . Lymph nodes gotswollen due to infection . There could be other reasons also for lumps under jaw like dental abscess or swelling due to blocked duct of submandibular gland .I would suggest you to :-- Apply warm compresses to the lumps 2-3 times a day .- Keep yourself hydrate by drinking at least 8 Glasses of water .- Avoid drinking cold beverages .- Avoid drinking and smoking.Consult ENT specialist (ear,nose,throat) for proper diagnosis . Doctor may palpate it physically or may go for CT scan to find out exact cause or to rule out other causes .Doctor may prescribe antibiotics along with medicine for any underlying disease if there is any .If doctor finds any dental related cause he/she will refer you to dentist . There acn be many treatment options for dental abscess like root canal . extraction or minor surgery.Hope your concern has been resolved.Best Wishes,Dr. Harry Maheshwari
Your body does various things to allow you to remain alive and move around . When it does these things , it produces heat . The heat leaves your body mostly through your skin 's contact with the air . If you did n't lose any heat , your body temperature would continue to rise until you overheated . The hotter it is around you , the slower you lose heat . So when it 's too hot , your body does n't lose heat fast enough , so you 're in danger of overheating . When it 's 98 degrees , your body temperature is actually higher than 98 ( I think ) , and wants to lose heat to get down to 98 . This is similar to the reason why water feels colder than air at the same temperature . Water is better at absorbing heat , so it takes heat from your body faster .
Lots of Brits feel culturally too different from Europe to want to be in a political and economic union with them . Some feel that Britain is being too constrained by the EU , and want the freedom that pulling out brings . Some feel that the EU is too wasteful . Some feel that other EU countries work against the UK 's interests . Some worry that the UK will one day never be able to leave and so be chained to the rest of Europe come hell or high water . Some do n't want the almost unlimited migration that can come from within the EU . And some feel that the EU is too undemocratic . Personally , as a Briton , I want us to remain within the EU , but I can see why people would believe these things .
If you are the sole owner (or just you and your spouse) and expect to be that way for a few years, consider the benefits of an individual 401(k). The contribution limits are higher than an IRA, and there are usually no fees involved. You can google "Individual 401k" and any of the major investment firms (Fidelity, Schwab, etc) will set one up free of charge. This option gives you a lot of freedom to decide how much money to put away without any plan management fees. The IRS site has all the details in an article titled One-Participant 401(k) Plans. Once you have employees, if you want to set up a retirement plan for them, you'll need to switch to a traditional, employer-sponsored 401k, which will involve some fees on your part. I seem to recall $2k/yr in fees when I had a sponsored 401(k) for my company, and I'm sure this varies widely. If you have employees and don't feel a need to have a company-wide retirement plan, you can set up your own personal IRA and simply not offer a company plan to your employees. The IRA contribution limits are lower than an individual 401(k), but setting it up is easy and fee-free. So basically, if you want to spend $0 on plan management fees, get an individual 401(k) if you are self-employed, or an IRA for yourself if you have employees.
Fast food is n't a destination restaurant , people usually do n't plan a night out at Taco Bell . Fast food is about convenience and impulse . They are about someone saying " gee , I 'm hungry " and looking up and seeing a sign for a restaurant . So if you own a fast food restaurant , you need to find the intersections , off ramps , and pedestrian malls that get a lot of traffic , and those same places will attract a lot of other restaurants .
I think it 's more the perceived " melancholic genius " than an actual association . The Romantic era , especially , really loved the idea of the brilliant depressive . But a quick search on Google Scholar shows me that ( a ) I ca n't find a lot of literature directly assessing IQ and depression , ( b ) what little there is shows that there is n't an association , and ( c ) depressed people tend to score * worse * on standardised testing . EDIT : I kept reading and found a couple studies that show an * inverse * relationship between IQ and depressive symptoms , especially in kids and teens .
Guns , Germs and Steel , by Jared Diamond , gives a pretty solid account . There are a lot of reasons , and a lot of bad assumptions made in the question . First , lets discuss the state of technology globally in the era of Columbus- I think that meeting time is the most relevant to the question . The central american tribes had huge urban cities with a complicated social structure and specialized trades , along with aquaculture and waterworks . Some North American tribes had complex democratic empires- which I would argue is a technological advancement over lineage - based monarchies in Europe of the time . They had an incredible knowledge of astronomy and goldsmithing . In china , there was artillery and gunpowder , but it was still feudal . In europe , there was a very complex system of government and international trade , but people were still putting their sewage in the street . The main technological differences between old and world and new are sea - going vessels , gunpowder , steel / iron / advanced metallurgy , and horses , which is n't really that much . I think the worlds were more similar than OP might suspect . Ocean - going vessels are necessary for Europeans , but not for Native americans , because trade was much more prevalent in Europe , as it had developed specialized farming , and then more general specialization- meaning that surplus food and
ALIASING ! Frequencies ! Imagine yourself blinking once per second , and keeping your eyes open only a fraction of that second . I 'm standing in front of you and I 'm alternatively flipping you the bird , and just standing around . However , I 'm timing it juuuust right so that every time you look at me , I 'm acting normally , and every time your eyes are closed , I 'm flicking you off . That 's Aliasing ; your sample size ( How often you open your eyes , the camera 's framerate , the sample rate of a microphone ) is n't fast enough to determine a true understanding of events . You need to sample at twice the rate of the signal you 're processing ; for example , our ears can hear up to 20,000 Hz , but the sample rate on your MP3 is 44,100 Hz : twice as much ! This is n't a coincidence . Any samples above that will only accurately measure noises that we ca n't hear .
There is some evidence that language may determine how we perceive color . This is a super cool video about the [ Himba ] ( URL_0 ) people who use very different color categories than most cultures do , and they actually see color very differently than we do . They have difficulty doing simple color discrimination tasks that we find very simple . Also , we have great difficulty discriminating between colors that they find very easy to distinguish . The video has a nice demo . Edit -I'll try it a little better as ELI5 : We do n't know that the colors we see are the actual colors . When we are little , we learn words for colors like red , green , and blue . Look in your crayola crayon box . There are tons and tons of colors , but you could probably put them in groups of reds , greens and blues , right ? But some colors look really similar to us . See how there are lots of green crayons ? Sometimes , the colors of green are so similar that we have trouble telling which is which . If I asked to borrow your Fern color crayon , you might accidentally hand me your Forest Green crayon unless you read the label . But in some other parts of the world people learn different words and different categories of colors . One group of people , the Himba , have
Usually, it's not a good idea as it will not only raise your debt to income ratios, but also impact your credit scores. However, if you have extensive credit history, having owned a home or two for a while (read: 10-20 years), taken out multiple auto loans in the past and paid them satisfactory, your credit score may not take a big hit. Possibly ust 5-10 points or it can be 30-40 points. It really depends on the depth of your credit profile.
Because they are not the same , or even really close to it . Circumcision removes the foreskin , but the penis is still full functional . You still have the ability to urinate and ejaculate . The equivalency to female surgery is to a female circumcision which is a trimming of the clitoral hood . This is actually legal most places . FGM which is the damaging or removal of the clitoris , removal of the labia , or full removal of the clitoral hood is what is illegal . The equivalent would be the removal of the penis head .
It becomes recognized whenever other countries recognize it . That 's not a satisfying answer , but it 's the truth . Just ask Palestine . There are only two things stopping you from finding an island and starting the People 's Democratic Free Opensource Republic of Doge : ( 1 ) finding an unclaimed island or ( 2 ) convincing a country to relinquish its claim on an island / convincing other countries to recognize your claim as superior to the existing country 's claim . If you can get over either of those two things , please let me know and I will be your first Vice Dictator . You may want to check out seasteading if this interests you . The idea there is to build an island - ship you can float out to international waters and then declare it as your own country . Defense against other countries and bandits is an issue , but people have put a lot of thought into it .
( note : the following is folklore and not science , I 'm not a believer but that does n't mean I ca n't appreciate a pretty story ) A poetic explanation I 've heard is that your guardian angel comes down from heaven at the instant of your birth and puts its finger across your mouth , " shushing " you so you forget all your past lives and live this latest reincarnation to the fullest .
People are willing to offer far more than Facebook is worth right now , which means it 's a good time to sell . In the mean time there are lots of profitable things to invest in , and if it gets cheaper later , then you can buy it back with a profit . Edit : I should also mention that they 're only selling about 5 % of the company , and keeping the other 95 % for themselves .
Your ancestors survived to have children ( including , eventually , you ! ) by throwing up when they ate poisonous things . Eventually that habit became so sharp that they threw up even when just smelling things that might be poisonous-- and that 's why you do it , too . Without it , you 'd be much more likely to eat something harmful .
If it is a sole proprietorship and you didn't make another mistake by explicitly asking the IRS to treat it as a corporation - there are no IRS forms to fill. You'll need to dissolve the LLC with your State, though, check the State's department of State/Corporations (depending on the State, the names of the departments dealing with business entities vary).
Ok this is the second time in a week where the most upvoted answer is wrong . It has nothing to do about bitrate . The correct answer is already here in this thread . /u / MissArelin URL_1 /u / UniqueNameIdentifier URL_2 /u / michaelrcarroll URL_0 I sell apples Some kid comes to me and asks for 16 green apples and he 's really specific . If they are n't the same color of green he wo n't buy it . I look through all my apples and find 4 different color of green , I pick 4 apples of each 4 colors . Now , if I just leave the different color of apples grouped together in the box the kid will see they 're different . So I arrange them in alternating order like this . G1 G2 G1 G2 G3 G4 G3 G4 G1 G2 G1 G2 G3 G4 G3 G4 This is the 4K. The kid looks at the box and tells me he can see that I 'm trying to trick him so he 'll only buy 4 apples of the same green and goes home with the G1 apples . This is the HD .
Basically 1 . The bison are native to North America and Europe . 2 . The buffalo is native to Africa and Asia . African buffaloes are wild animals while Asian buffaloes are mostly domesticated . 3 . Bison have thick shaggy coats , though they shed these during summer , while the buffalo has short and smooth coats . Bison have shorter horns compared to the buffaloes as they prefer butting heads to locking horns . Both are nomadic grazers and they travel in herds . URL_0
Westerner living in China / studied modern Chinese history here . When the Communist Party came to power in 1949 , they did implement Communist policies like land redistribution , communal living , " Iron Rice Bowl " jobs ( guaranteed job security ) , and such ( and they became very popular in the 20s and 30s in rural areas because they espoused ideas like class struggle , the supremacy of the working proletariat , and equality between men and women ) . Some of these policies were rather disastrous ( the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution , for starters ) , and in the 1970s and 80s , the government began experimenting with turning some cities into Special Economic Zones , many of which were close to Hong Kong , which was still a British possession at the time ( it became a Special Administrative Region of China in 1997 ) and had a booming capitalist economy . Cities like Shenzhen ( which is right on the border with Hong Kong ) became wealthy really , really fast when they were allowed to experiment with capitalism . When Deng Xiaoping took power , he further liberalized the economy in order to promote national stability . He called it " Socialism with Chinese Characteristics " , because it tried to marry the old Maoist / Marxist ways of thinking with capitalism . The most famous quote you 'll hear about Deng Xiaoping 's theories is " It
The ultimate decider here is etymology . English already had a native prefix for negating the meaning of words : un- . When you unbutton a shirt you perform the opposite action of buttoning it . But English borrowed a * lot * of Latin words , either directly or via the French . In both of those languages there 's a different negating prefix : in- . This prefix was borrowed alongside the words it was used to negate and continues to be used to negate many noticeably Latin words such as inanimate and inflexible .
It is typically best to pay minimum payments to 2 of the loans and pay aggressively on the third loan. Some will tell you to pay the highest interest rate loan off first because "personal finance" is about "finance" and mathematically that saves you the most interest. Some will tell you to pay the smallest balance loan off first because "personal finance" is "personal" and the psychological "win" of paying off a loan is more valuable than the small amount of interest difference between this strategy and paying off the loan with the highest interest rate first.
[ This link ] ( URL_0 ) appears to verify that fire hydrants do exist in the UK . It appears that in the UK they are commonly marked by a yellow plaque bearing a black " H , " and look like nothing more than a plain pipe instead of the iconic American - style fire hydrants and are probably located under a plate in the sidewalk or roadway in urban areas .
To expand a little bit on what 's already been said , calories are raw energy . The actual energy in the food comes from the chemical bonds that form the molecules . Sugars have a few bonds , and so do proteins . Fats have a whole lot of bonds , which is why they are so energy rich . Your body breaks these bonds and transfers that energy into a different bond : ATP . ATP is your body 's energy currency , kind of like a dollar . At a bank ( or a flea market , which is probably a better description ) , you can trade in whatever you have that is valuable to get dollars , which you can then spend on whatever you want . In the same way , your body trades in various forms of energy that are stored in the foods we eat to produce one standardized form of energy that can be used anywhere . Your muscles use up ATP to flex , your neurons use up ATP to fire , your kidneys use up ATP to filter your blood , your liver uses ATP to detoxify your blood , etc .
You can hire a builder to build for you on a lot that you would be happy to live on with utilities already connected. Subdividing a large piece of land gets a little more complicated. What easements exist, and what new easements would need to be created when connecting utilities? Would all of the lots already have street access, or do you need to dedicate some of the land to building a new road in the subdivision? Also, I edited your post because 83,000sqft is 1.9 acres. Building homes on .19 acre parcels (assuming no need for a road to take another 15% of the lot) reduces the value of the homes that you are building. You should run the numbers with 6 houses and see how attractive the math looks. Also, you should look for updated numbers on cost to build. Custom homes are likely closer to $275-$350 (where an architect is involved with drawing the plans).
If you 're describing the NFL National Championship game then they 're perfectly allowed to use the term Super Bowl because it describes the game . But , they 're not allowed to say " It 's the Super Bowl of Savings down at Larry 's Discount Mattress Warehouse " because that dilutes the term and might imply that the NFL was endorsing Larry 's Discount Mattress Warehouse .
Overly - simplified , but this is for ELI5 Think about your lego toys . If you were to take a picture of it with a camera you might notice two things . For one , most of the image is blurry except for the toy in the middle . You 'd also notice that the toy is very bright and colorful ( and toys tend to be . Who would want to play with a boring dull looking lego set ? ) Now , if you look at a photo from our trip to the grand canyon it 's a little different . It 's bright , but not as bright and colorful as the lego set , and the image is n't as blurry . That 's because the closer an object gets to your eye your eye begins to focus on it more and blurs everything else out . This is called " depth of field " ( roughly . ) In fact , you can look at your finger close - up right now and you may notice that when you focus on that finger everything else gets a little blurry . This does n't really happen for objects that are larger and farther away , only for smaller objects closeup , so in order to trick your eyes and make it look like our car in the grand canyon photos looks like the lego set we need to change the photo so that it 's
Music video were advertisement for the album , just like singles . TV stations like MTV and VH1 used to play primarily music videos . Back in the day MTV was basically just the radio with picture . The shows on it were pretty much just a host who introduced videos , interviewed artists , and talk about some music news occasionally .
While dealerships often have a well - deserved reputation for price - gouging , the manufacturers also play a role . I spent a week touring the different departments of a large Mercedes - Benz dealership . They had a room full of nothing but " special tools " ; tools that Mercedes - Benz sells to the dealerships at inflated prices ( because there is n't an alternative ) . If , during development of a new model , the opportunity is there to require some speciality tool rather than something out of a standard toolbox for a maintenance task , it 's going to be taken advantage of . It 's just one more thing that 's going to increase profit . Additionally , manufacturers are the primary reason behind the high overhead costs of operating a dealership . They require dealerships to adhere to certain standards ; many of which have nothing to do with the mechanical maintenance of their cars . Things that are meant to project the image of the brand ; interior decoration , branding , furniture , etc . These all add to the overhead that gets passed down to the consumer . I 'd also like to add that , while you might consider maintenance basic , running a garage is not easy or cheap . $ 150 is certainly ridiculous for an alignment , but I think it 's unfair when consumers expect anything other than " dirt cheap " to
There are a lot of misconceptions in these answers . Infinity can mean a few different things , a more accurate statement would be that there are different sizes of infinite sets . We say that the natural numbers ( or whole numbers ) are the ' smallest ' infinite set . It can be proved that we can find a ' copy ' of this set in any other infinite set . However , it turns out that the set of the even natural numbers ( which you might think would be a smaller set ) can be put in one - to - one correspondence ( or can be ' matched up one by one ' ) with the set of all natural numbers , which tells us that they have the same ' size ' ( in a sense ) . Extending this , we say that two sets have the same size ( or cardinality ) if they can be put in one - to - one correspondence . This is certainly true for finite set , but leads to some weird things for infinite sets . The set of rationals , for example , have the same cardinality as the natural numbers . However , Cantor showed that the reals can not be put in one - to - one correspondence with the natural numbers . Since the natural numbers are cleary a subset of the reals , this shows that the reals must have
They 're mutations ! A lot of them come from genes that are broken by radiation or chemical processes , or sometimes an enzyme will copy a gene not quite correctly , resulting in a change . If the change is negative , the cell or organism will die pretty quick ( unless it causes cancer ) . If the change is positive , the cell / organism is likely to survive better and split and share those new genes .
It 's a variety of things . Shy people can just prefer to not interact much with others , they can be very introverted or just a little introverted , they can be aloof and unconcerned with socialisation , they can be actively against socializing due to antisocial disorders , they can be low - selfesteem , they can have anxiety issues , they can be off in their own world , they can be raised in a culture that encourages stoicism and only speaking when necessary , and so on . There is many different types of " shyness " and many different reasons for why people may be shy in different ways . We as a society tend to think of shy people as X or Y. I 'm a fairly extroverted person , but I imagine that if I was introverted , I 'd feel fairly fed up with the generalizing perceptions of introverted / shy people . It 's possible that a lot of shy people get crap from it from their friends and family at a young age ( why do nt you talk more ? What 's wrong ? ) and it really turns them off of socialization , and as a result they actually become more " shy " than they naturally ever were .
Think of it in a different situation . You have 100 doors . You pick 1 door and have 1/100 chance of winning . The host then opens 98 doors that the prize is n't in and asks if we would like to trade doors . Now in our minds it seems I now have 50/50 chance of winning instead of 1/100 that I originally had . But because he eliminated 98 doors that for certain do n't have the prize , he has shown you which door has a 99/100 chance of having the prize , because your original odds were only 1/100 . When it 's only three doors its harder to wrap your head around , but it works the same way .
* * Warning : massive spoilers . * * This post is essentially the key parts from Roberta 's book . Parts of it are available to read online . Near the start of Donnie Darko the universe breaks . A jet engine appears in the sky without a cause , creating a parallel universe ( sort of like an alternate reality , much the same as the one we live in but with slightly different rules ) . Without a cause for the jet engine 's appearance both the universe and parallel universe will end in a month . There are slightly different rules for the parallel universe to our own , mostly involving what people can do . Since Donnie was ' supposed ' to be killed by the jet engine he is given powers , but is unaware of them . The powers give him mastery over water , metal and the creation of portals ( evidenced by him flooding the school , putting an axe in the mascot , and creating a portal at the end ) . Unless he fixes the universe , it will end . Others who are killed in the parallel universe ( Frank and Gretchin ) are aware of the dire situation , and have powers . They are n't able to fix the universe directly , however . For example , Frank uses his power to appear to Donnie . Gretchin does not overtly use powers , instead making Donnie
They want to keep ivory out of the market all together to discourage people from both buying and selling it . If they sold it , the buyers would simply consume what they bought then turn to the poachers for more , knowing that if the poachers got caught , they could still buy the product via the government . But if it 's out of the market entirely , the buyers will either have to look elsewhere or come up with alternative solutions for their needs .
The ' 4 ' and ' a ' you see on your screen right now ( unless you 're using an odd font ) are the technically correct glyphs , which is why they appear that way in most typefaces unless it 's specifically mimicking handwriting . The " open 4 " is use in handwriting because it 's easier to distinguish from a 9 . When writing quickly , those two digits can often look similar . The other way of writing ' a ' is more because it 's easier and faster .
Many animals , including people , have a natural instinct to respond to specific stimuli in a variety of ways . For example low sounds are often a trait of animal growls or roars , a good sign you need to get the fuck out of there . Sudden noises in the silence are also a good example . If you sneak up on a deer and snap a twig on accident it will suddenly try to figure out what caused it . You do the same walking down a corridor and suddenly hearing a creak .
Plants are dicks . They engage in wholesale chemical warfare . They 'd stab you to death and take your shit if they could move . So the goal of " fruit " is to trick something into making off with a seed that it will plant or shit out somewhere else . Nuts are a typically part of the fruiting body that has the seed job of the business . The nut part is the part the plants want to have end up in the dirt . So they either want you to eat some and throw some away , or they want you to swallow in one end and discover your body wants it shat out the other in short order . So nuts are this body of food value for the new plant / tree that the tree wants you to take over younder and abandon . So most nuts are attached to or imbedded in fruits . Now some systems are odd . Like the walnut . It 's fruit is toxic . It wants to drop to the ground , roll a little way , rot in peace , then sprout later . It 's developed that toxic fruit . then under that the wood - hard shell , then inside that is everything you need to have another tree sapling get to the " here are my leaves stage " . So plants are dicks . They are full of alkaloids to drive off
In this case, it looks like the interest is simply the nominal daily interest rate times number of days in the period. From that you can use a spreadsheet to calculate the total payment by trial and error. With the different number of days in each period, any formula would be very complicated. In the more usual case where the interest charge for each period is the same, the formula is: m=P*r^n*(r-1)/(r^n-1) where * is multiplication ^ is exponentiation / is division (Sorry, don't know if there's a way to show formulas cleanly on here) P=original principle r=growth factor per payment period, i.e. interest rate + 100% divided by 100, e.g. 1% -> 1.01 n=number of payments Note the growth factor above is per period, so if you have monthly payments, it's the rate per month. The last payment may be different because of rounding errors, unequal number of days per period, or other technicalities. Using that formula here won't give the right answer because of the unequal periods, but it should be close. Let's see: r=0.7% times an average of 28.8 days per period gives 20.16% + 1 = 1.2016. n=5 P=500 m=500*1.2016^5*(1.2016-1)/(1.2016^5-1) =167.78 Further off than I expected, but ballpark.
It 's an online broadcast platform that lets people curate news , conversation , and link - sharing based on their interests . For instance , a sports fan can follow professional athletes , fantasy sports analysis , ESPN breaking news , ( etc . ) and basically create a real - time sports newsfeed filled with information they care about from sources they trust / enjoy .
The amount of paper work needed to legally change your name differs a bit depending on where you are . It is generally easier in places with common law traditions ( UK , US , everywhere the British empire touched ) than civil law ( most of the rest of the world in part thanks to Napoleon ) . In some common law jurisdiction you can simply do a name change by deed poll . Basically you make a legally binding contract with yourself that this is your new name . You can also just start using a name and then after having used it for long enough say " this is what I have always called my self , it counts as my name . " In other places it might be harder . Countries that have a national ID and a central registry of citizens / inhabitants / taxpayers will want to be involved in the name change thing . It is in the best interest of society that people ca n't just take up a new identity and leave their old life complete with any debts and obligations they may have had behind . It is also important that you can prove that you are the person who you claim to be , so you ca n't be denied what is yours . In some countries authorities will limit what names you can take when you change your name for a variety of reasons , some of
murder is the deliberate intentional killing of a person . Assassination is the murder of an important or famous person . Manslaughter exact definition varies a bit by jurisdiction , but is more or less killing someone illegally when you did not intend to kill them . For instance killing someone while driving drunk is usually manslaughter in most jurisdictions .
For the better part of human existence , we 've spent our days working and our nights resting . When the sun came up , we woke up . When it went down , we made a fire , cooked and ate our food , then went to bed . We would also have nightly " watchmen " , who would sleep during the day so that they could keep an eye on the camp / cave entrance / village to ensure that no outsiders / predators came in and killed people in their sleep . If people did n't awaken at the sunrise ( which was most common ) , he would wake the people up so that he could eat and rest .
Hi...Thank you for consulting in Health Care magic. Skin conditions are best diagnosed only after seeing directly. I suggest you to upload photographs of the same on this website, so that I can guide you scientifically. Hope my answer was helpful for you. I am happy to help any time. Further clarifications and consultations on Health care magic are welcome. If you do not have any clarifications, you can close the discussion and rate the answer. Wish your kid good health.Dr. Sumanth MBBS., DCH., DNB (Paed).,
If you heat iron to about 900 degC ( dependant on purity ) it will switch the way its atoms are arranged . When you cool the iron back down again , it tries to switch back . Now , if you put some carbon into the iron ( making it a steel ) , the iron gets a bit of a problem when trying to switch back during cooling . The iron now wants to reject almost all of that carbon , preferably by making small carbide plates or particles . When cooling is too rapid however , the iron does n't get the time to do this , and thus forms what is known as [ martensite ] ( URL_1 ) instead . All of that excess carbon is now trapped inside a rather distorted structure , which will be more or less hard depending on the carbon content of the steel . This rapid cooling from high temperature is * hardening * ( or quenching ) . By adding elements such as chromium and nickel to the steel in moderate amounts , which are big atoms that replace iron atoms in the crystal structure , you will not need to cool as rapidly to get the martensite transformation . This is because things get more complicated for the metal , which thus need more time to complete its preferred transformation . We say that the * hardenability * of the steel increases . Hardenability is completely unrelated
It could very well be that you 're hearing multiple thunder claps at the same time , but are indistinguishable given your location in relation to them . Sound like that also travels large distances and is affected by other things you would n't consider ; when I 'm in NH , thunder often rolls past us , then back at us when it bounces off the mountains .
Hypnic Jerk is not a mean hypnotist , it 's a reflex action that can occur as your body transitions in to sleep . Your motor cortex has a kind of built in safety that gets engaged as you sleep in order to prevent damaging yourself as you dream . When you dream you 're running , this is the process that keeps you from actually running in bed . As you begin to drift off to sleep though if this gradual transition does n't happen smoothly , sometimes the paralysis kicks in before you 're sufficiently unconscious and you jerk awake feeling like you were falling for a moment . It happens more often when you sleep sitting up , or leaning against something , when you 've been doing rigorous physical activity prior to napping , or when you are very tired or under a lot of stress .
I would not argue if its more difficult, its different, and it much depends what kind of stocks you refer to, i take large caps as example. The players are different. Companies and even govts may hedge in the commodities (futures) market while in big caps this and other entities mainly invest. (Of course there’s HFT in large caps too). Futures often come with way higher leverage, lower spread and less commissions than stocks attracting retail and institutional speculators/HFT. Another big difference is that commodity prices react to all kind of news events (Stocks do too, but not that much and frequent), this kind of reactions big caps only do on earnings or on news directly affecting the company. Commodities are much more volatile on geo economic / political news events. This combined with higher leverage & HFT produces astounding moves. To sum it up, the players are different and act different than in large stocks, liquidity may be another thing.
Many mortgages penalize early payment, and I assume it's possible to disallow it altogether. It makes sense why they don't want early payment. If you pay off the loan early, it is usually because you re-financed it to a loan with a lower rate. You would do this when the interest rate is low (lower than when you got your original loan). If you pay it off early, that means they will have to re-invest the money again, or they will lose money if they just have it sitting around. However, recall above that people pay it off early when the interest rate is low; that is the worst time for them to re-invest this into another mortgage, because the rate will not be as good for them as the one you were originally going to keep paying.
If it was a normal company , like a hotel , they 'd charge you a higher rate for using their product at peak times . But power companies are regulated , and set their rates based on agreements with local and state gov'ts . They are required to do their best to provide power to everyone , and during peak times , this requires a lot of effort , and they may have to purchase power from other companies . It would be like the Hotel 6 having to pay to let you stay in the Marriott , and still charging you $ 59 a night . So for power companies , even though more people are using their product , they can actually lose money during peak usage .
Existentialism , roughly , is the idea that there is no inherent purpose to existence . You make your own existence , and your happiness or purpose comes from what you want and what you do and you create your own meaning . Existential nihilism is the idea that even making your own purpose is pointless - one day you will die , one day everyone who knew you will die , and no one will ever remember anything about you . The only purpose in life is following the biological imperatives built into life - get stuff so you can attract a mate so you can do the sex so you can have a kid so they can get stuff to attract a mate ... etc . That 's it , and it 's not really a " purpose " it 's just following your programming . Cynicism is the belief that , in general , people are not * good * , they are motivated by self - interest . Even someone who is doing something good is probably just doing it so they can get something else later , sometimes even if they do n't think that 's what they 're doing . It 's not that people are evil , they are just following their programming ( see above ) . Pessimism is the idea that you should always plan for the worst . Even if you think something good is going to happen , it
Most of the time when someone is " on life - support " it means they are on a ventilator . This is a machine that facilitates gas exchange by pumping in air either through a tube down the throat or a hole in the neck called a tracheostomy . It 's a very high - tech piece of equipment that monitors crucial aspects of breathing . Another component of long - term life - support is feeding . This is done either through a tube up the nose into the stomach ( or first section of small intestine ) or through a hole in the side of the abdomen directly in the the stomach known as a PEG tub . Or if these are contraindicated , a person on life - support may be on TPN or total parenteral nutrition , which is is customized nutrients pumped directly into the person 's venous system . If the kidneys do n't work for some reason , they can hook the patient up to a dialysis machine that filters out waste , removes excess fluid and balances electrolytes . Of course this person will also need to be turned every 2 hours to prevent pressure ulcers , cleaned up after every bowel movement and episode of urinary incontinence as well . The other respondent is wrong when it comes to liver failure . There is no machine that does the job of the liver if yours fails . Heart , lungs
Hi everyone , in addition to being a big wine fan , I also spent several years selling wine for my job . My perspective will be more American ( as opposed to French and Italian ) , but I will go in to some of the differences between how American and how French and Italian wines are labeled . This is just a quick intro . Please feel free to respond or PM if you have more questions ! * * Wine Grape Varietals :* * All wines are made from grapes . There are three kinds of wines made from grapes : - * * Reds * * : The grape skins of red wine varietals ( Grapes with red skins ) are fermented with the grape juice to get a deep red colored wine . - * * Whites * * : Also fermented with the skins on , but made from white wine varietals ( grapes with green / yellowish skins ) - * * Rosés * * : Usually made from red wine varietals , but the skins do not ferment in the grape juice for as long , so you get a pink wine instead of a red wine . * * Popular Red Wine Varietals :* * * * Cabernet Sauvignon * * - Commonly referred to as the " King of Wines " for it 's big , bold flavors . The American style Cabernet tends to be big on fruit flavors
Its not just Citi and BoFA, even Barclays, HSBC and other large Banks are trading below book value in markets they are listed. Are there particular assets that are causing these two banks to be valued lower relative to their book values than the other banks? There no particular assets. Given the current economic situation most Banks are not making good returns, i.e. expected returns of markets are around 10-12% and the returns getting generated are around 4-6%. The overall slow down in various segments as well as regulations in most countries mean that banks have to relook at the business model in short term and generate more revenue. The market believes that Banks may loose money faster and hence the negative outlook and the trading below the book value. Note Book Value is derived in ideal conditions, i.e. when the company is healthy. If any company were to sell the assets in distress, the actual funds raised would be quite a bit less than Book Value. Its also to be noted that typically Banks would not close out and hence Book Value to an extent is just an indicator. Or is it a residual loathing based on their being the biggest losers of 2008 that are still around today? The 2008 has gone past. This is more recent. If you look most of these banks were doing quite well till last year and had recovered substantially after 2008.
Assuming English is your native tongue - you 'd learn it the same way you learned english ; one word at a time . For instance you 'd point to yourself and say " ELI5 " , then I would do the same and say " Whalenmich " ... then hold up a banana and say " Banana " until you got that ; and so on ....
The answers here are wrong . The temperature a heat pump can warm a space is not limited to the temperature of the ground ( 55 , in your example ) or the outside air in the case of a traditional heat pump . As long as the medium you 're running through the ground ( water , glycol , whatever ) is a lower temp than ground itself , you 'll transfer heat energy to the system . The compressor and refrigeration components of the system then essentially concentrates the heat you 've transferred and uses it to warm your space .
Binary ( base 2 ): Digits are 0 and 1 . Count like this : 0 , 1 , 10 , 11 , 100 , 101 , 110 , 111 111 ( in binary ) = 1 * ( 2 ^ 2 ) + 1 * ( 2 ^ 1 ) + 1 * ( 2 ^ 0 ) = 1 * 4 + 1 * 2 + 1 = 4 + 2 + 1=7 in decimal Decimal ( base 10 ): Digits are 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 . Count like this : 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 ... 19 , 20 , 21 , ... 100 , 101 ... 123 ( in decimal ) = 1 * ( 10 ^ 2 ) + 2 * ( 10 ^ 1 ) + 3 * ( 10 ^ 0 ) = 100 + 20 + 3 = 123 in decimal Base 12 ( duodecimal or dozenal ): digits are 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , A , B Count like this : 0 , 1 , 2 , ... , 8 , 9 , A , B , 10 , 11 , ... , 19 , 1A , 1B
so you have a cup on one end of a string . and on the other end of the string is your friend with a cup(You two are the computers , the cups are the modems ) . you want to send a message to your friend(this is like when you go to click the start game button in one of your disney junior games ) . Now you are going to speak into your cup . the sound hits the cup . vibrates through the string . the vibrations hit the cup and turn back into your voice . Then your friend hears the message . am i doing this right ?
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary .The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday , and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover .It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week .
The heat from nuclear fission is used to power a steam engine , which generates electricity . We do n't have one in our cars for a few reasons , first , nuclear reactors do n't scale down past a certain point - you ca n't make one arbitrarily small , because you need " critical mass " of uranium . Second , they require lots of very heavy shielding , and third , the capacity for accidents and malfeasance with millions of nuclear reactors in automobiles , is way too high .
They give off heat through " phase change " which is when something changes states , in this case liquid to solid . The energy involved in the actual change is a lot greater than the energy involved in just raising or lowering the material 's temperature . Think of a cooler of ice water , when it is at the point of melting ice takes a huge amount of heat to fully melt into water . This is why the cooler of ice water can keep something cold for a long time , the changing phase from ice to water absorbs a lot of heat . The heat pack is the exact opposite change , it goes from liquid to solid which in turn gives off a lot of heat . This heat ( energy ) was put into the gel in the microwave to turn it into a liquid which ended up storing said heat . The seemingly magic part is how it is stored until it is needed . This is something called " superheating " and " supercooling . " What this means is that the material is beyond the freezing or melting point without freezing or melting . This can happen for a number of reasons , the biggest one being that phase change usually requires a starting point , called a " nucleation site . " If the substance is pure and does n't have a starting point it can go beyond its normal
We 're busy making elements that do n't occur naturally because they break down incredibly quickly . The most stable isotope of element 118 lasts just 69 milliseconds . It is believed that the most stable isotope of 119 will last an incredible 20 microseconds . That makes it incredibly hard to confirm you actually measured what you think you measured and they have to successfully create it hundreds or thousands of times so that can take quite a long time to get .
As has been explained , it means 3rd gear . On your vehicle , 4th gear is an overdrive gear , meaning it has a final drive that is less than a 1:1 ratio for better gas mileage . Now , the * reason * your shifter is probably marked 1 - 2 - D3 - OD is that D3 is used when you are driving in hills to keep the transmission from " hunting " between 3rd and 4th . But , it is considered a final drive gear , hence the reason it is distinguished with the " D " as oppsed to 1st and 2nd which are rarely used in an automatic ... meaning the driver rarely shifts down to those gears . Most of the time it 's best to just keep it in OD and let the computer take care of shifting .
The money goes to whoever sold the stock . If you buy a stock from me for 100 , and then it drops to 10 , the 100 you gave me is in my pocket . If you buy a stock from me for 100 and it goes up to 200 , that 200 does n't exist . Somebody , somewhere gave somebody else 200 dollars for a stock , but you do n't have 200 .
I am sorry , but everyone blaming this on the Osama operation(Operation Neptune Spear ) is extremely misguided at best . Radical islamist of all kinds strive to block any western influence to those around them . Western medicine curing disease and helping people around them only makes them look bad in contrast , and will spread pro western ideas . Attacks on aid workers by Islamic extremist are very prevalent in many parts of the world , and have been for decades before the Osama operation . The people killing aid workers today , are the same ones that have been for years the only thing that changes are their reasons . source : URL_0
HIV is like a zombie and your white blood cells are the doctors / cops trying to cure / stop them and the red blood cells are us the unsuspecting masses . the Zombies eat the doctors / cops as they come to help / stop them and very quickly there are not enough doctors or cops to handle the zombies let alone any of the bodies other problems that were easily managed before(disease / bacteria ) but now rapidly begin to fail .
Billshrink offers some pretty neat analysis tools to help you pick a credit card. They focus more on rewards than the features you mention but it might be worth a look. If you use Mint, they offer a similar service, too. If you're not already using Mint, though, I'd look at Billshrink as Mint requires some extensive setup. MOD EDIT Looks like billshrink.com is shut down. From their site: Dear BillShrink customer, As you may have heard, BillShrink.com was shut down on July 31, 2013. While we’re sad to say goodbye, we hope we’ve been able to help you be better informed and save some money along the way! The good news is that much of the innovative award-winning BillShrink technology will still be available via our StatementRewards platform (made available to customers by our partnering financial institutions). Moreover, we expect to re-launch a new money-saving service in the future. To see more of what we’re up to, visit Truaxis.com. We have deleted your personal information as of July 31. We will retain your email address only to announce a preview of the new tool. If you do not want us to retain your email address, you can opt out in the form below. This opt out feature will be available until September 31, 2013. If you have already opted out previously, you do not need to opt out again. If you have any further questions, contact us at info@billshrink.com. Thanks, The BillShrink/Truaxis Team
Scratching makes itchy rashes of any kind worse because it irritates the skin which is already sensitive . This can cause a secondary infection , break the skin and cause peeling , cause the area to darken , or cause lichenification ( tough thickened skin ) . Basically , scratching may make it feel better for a second but really does n't help so do n't . Instead , work on solving the problem : keep the area clean , try cold to reduce inflammation and block the nerves ( cold and itchy use the same nerves ) , and apply a medicated cream . For most rashes or itchy areas , hydrocortisone is good , but what we commonly call jock itch is either a yeast infection or a variety of ring worm . Use a -azole cream like miconazole or clotrimazole or Lamisil sold in either the foot care section or the womens hygiene section .
It 's got to do with gravity , the moon 's gravity pulls against everything on the earth 's surface . Most things are too stuck to the surface to be affected due to friction and just being attached solidly to the ground . Large volumes of water are more malleable in this way . And so they tend to flow towards the moon . And when there 's a landmass in the way , it creeps up against the landmass creating a high tide .
I have n't watched the entire video , but for most of them I 've seen , you can see plenty of evidence of very heavy crosswinds . Most of them have audible wind noise in the recordings and you can see the way the dust kicked off by touchdown gets blown to the side fairly strongly . As for the runways , I 'm not certain so I 'll leave that one alone for someone who knows more about the subject .
> Its not like they do anything sexually different than straight people . Yes they do . They use protection less often since there is no risk of pregnancy , and they perform more anal sex , which has a higher transmission rate of HIV than straight sex . For a long time AIDS was known as " GRID " ( Gay Related Immune Deficiency ) specifically because it was prevalent among gay men .
There are two directions to every chemical equation : the forward and the reverse reactions . In the reaction > A + B - > AB the combination of A and B is the forward reaction , and the decomposition of AB is the reverse reaction . The fact that we wrote a single arrow means that the forward rate is much faster than the reverse . If they were the same ( i.e. , in equilibrium ) , we 'd use a double arrow : > A + B < = > AB Notice it 's not the * * amounts * * of the compounds that are equal ; it 's the * * rates * * that each side becomes the other . Try to visualize what 's going on : in the forward reaction , A and B molecules are bouncing around , sometimes fusing into AB when they meet in just the right way . In the reverse reaction , AB molecules are spontaneously splitting apart back into A and B. If we add more A to the mix , suddenly there 's more A bouncing around to react with the B. So , there will be more AB 's being formed - the reaction rate increases , and the concentration of AB goes up . Similarly , if we add more AB , the reverse reaction rate increases , and the concentration of A and B increases . In either case , we quickly
During the war games they challenge different aircraft against each other along with having guys on the ground with equipment that can trigger the aircraft 's ECM ( electronic counter measures ) when an aircraft gets a missile lock they track where the aircraft is , what missile system was used and the target aircrafts evasive maneuvers that it performed . All of this is then communicated to the pilot and they continue . On the ground we sometimes fire foam rockets in unison with the equipment used to simulate missile lock to help the pilots ( and crew chiefs on rotary aircraft ) have a visual aid so that they can perform the correct type of GTR ( ground threat reaction ) . One time while working smokey Sam ( foam rockets ) a crew chief started firing on us with his gau-17 mini gun . PTSD or something . Was scared shitless but we did get the next day off so kinda worth it .
Generally speaking(human v animals ) strength comes from tendons , not muscles . Even if i had the same muscle mass as a gorilla the gorilla would be stronger purely from tendon strength . tendon strength can be built up like muscular but takes alot longer and dissipates quicker from lack of use compared to muscle strength . also /u / subduction is right : its genetic . think about it , an orangutan does nt look jacked but it would still destroy a human if it chose to .
Preserving the union was Lincoln 's main goal : * " If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it , and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it ; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that . " * -Abraham Lincoln Slavery was a part of the North 's reason to wage war but not the primary reason . Keep in mind that slavery was a dying institution . The way history was going , slavery would eventually end . Most Northerners were not abolitionists and most Southerners were not slave owners . While Lincoln was against slavery , he was n't for the equality of whites and blacks : * “ I will say , then , that I am not , nor ever have been , in favor of bringing about in any way the social and political equality of the white and black races — that I am not , nor ever have been , in favor of making voters or jurors of Negroes , nor of qualifying them to hold office , nor to intermarry with white people ; and I will say in addition to this , that there is a physical difference between the white and black races which I believe will forever forbid the two races living together on terms of social and political equality . And inasmuch as
It is because punctuation and formatting of things that we read mimics timing / cadence of vocal speech . This allows the reader to develop their own version of timing for what they are reading , and it , incidentally , why proper punctuation is so damned important . Example ( this is the number 1 joke of all time on r / jokes , as reformatted by me ): > " SON ! Guess what ? You were adopted ! " said the dad " Are you kidding really " I said back " Yup get ready they 'll be . Picking you up . In about an HOUR ! " said the . Dad . That probably is n't as funny as this : URL_0
According to Regulation 21 of Chapter III of the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 ( SOLAS 74 ): > 1.1 Passenger ships engaged on international voyages which are not short international voyages shall carry : > 1.1.1 Partially or totally enclosed lifeboats complying with the requirements of section 4.5 or 4.6 of the Code on each side of such aggregate capacity will accommodate not less than 50 % of the total number of person onboard . * * The Administration , may permit the substitution of lifeboats by liferafts of equivalent total capacity provided that there shall never be less than sufficient lifeboats on each side of the ship to accommodate 37.5 % of the total number of persons on board . * * According the regulation , a passenger ship is not required to carry enough lifeboats for everyone onboard , just 75 % of the people if there are enough liferafts to cover the remaining 25 % . Furthermore : > 1.2 Passenger ships engaged short international voyages shall carry : > 1.2.1 Partially or totally enclosed lifeboats complying with the requirements of section of 4.5 or 4.6 of the Code of such aggregate capacity will accommodate at least 30 % of the total number of persons on board . So , some passenger vessels only require lifeboats for 60 % of the crew , provide that liferafts or Marine Evacuation Systems used to cover the remaining 40 % .
They get a lot of special help / attention and are not allowed to slack off . Some but not all take easier majors . Funny side note : At my school the easiest classes often have football appended in front of the name . For example the easiest science you can take here is informally called ' football physics ' .
For just " URL_0 " : - Get you better results ( figure out smart new ways to get the entire internet for you ) - Get you results faster ( lots of optimization and such ) - Make it cheaper to get you results ( making their information more efficient for them to store and look up ) Most the URL_3 work is like a [ huge factory ] ( URL_1 ) . There 's lots of people going around organizing and marking things , even if you only see the [ front desk ] ( URL_2 ) where you ask them to find something for you .
Does the number two exist ? Sure you can imagine two cats , or two forks , or whatever , but does two exist , outside of being an adjective applied to nouns ? What about the number pi ? It is n't even possible to have pi of anything ! The question is purely philosophical , but you should approach the complex numbers with the same mentality . We accept a concept of two and ignore the question of " two what ? " because the question is irrelevant , we can say wonderful things about two independent of the answer . Just like that , we can say wonderful things about 3 + 7i , regardless of whether you can actually have that many cats . The reason mathematicians came up with the complex numbers is because it is often convenient to consider them , if just as a means to a real end . For instance , there is a [ formula ] ( URL_0 ) for the roots of a cubic polynomial involving complex numbers , such a formula is impossible to write without using them , even if all the roots are real . They are in a very precise sense the natural completion of the real numbers because all polynomials of degree n have n roots in the complex numbers . This property is called algebraically complete , and the complex numbers are the only " algebraic " extension of the real numbers which
They often pinned problems on the targeted population . Germany suffered hyperinflation in the years before Hitler , during the Weimar republic . They also were experiencing poverty , unemployment , and suffering under the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles . Hitler blamed this on the Jews as well as on other groups . Stalin called the people being purged counterrevolutionaries and enemies of the people . This was not long after the Revolution , which was after all largely a popular revolution against the Tsarist regime and landowners . Leaders usually become leaders because they 're charismatic and able to convince people to agree with / follow them . By convincing the general populace that these groups were problematic it becomes easier to convince the populace to go along with their mass murder . Endemic racism can often be a big contributor as well . Antisemitism was rife in Germany as well as much of the rest of the world at the time of the Holocaust , and the Holodomor against the Ukrainians under Stalin ... well , just look at how the Russians are treating the Ukrainians even today .
Most probable reason ? Price . Plain glass is much cheaper than shock resistant glass , or even scratch resistant glass or so . All these improvements make the product a tad more expensive and sometimes this difference gets bit enough to matter . We could also say that in some situations a heat tempered glass piece is just plain stupid . Imagine if a window in you house got hit by a sharp rock . If it was a heat tempered piece it would shatter in a million pieces and cleaning that would be a pain in the butt . Now , if we use plain glass it just breaks into big chunks near the impact . See ? Its much easier to clean and sometimes can be " fixed " with a piece of tape till the next day , while if it was HT glass you woudn't have a window anymore , just a hole in your wall .
Since I 'm probably one of the few people going through this that 's been studying this kind of thing , I 'll do my best to explain it . One thing to keep in mind is that the first anime was Astro Boy . Why is this important ? Because it was Japan 's attempt to copy the style of Disney . Inadvertently , this caused some of the characters to look more caucasian . The next thing to consider would be facial features themself . While there 's a huge variety among the different races of Asia , I 'll assume you 're asking why they do n't look Japanese . The short answer ? They do . The long answer : Depending on the anime / manga / art , and depending on the artist , lots of things change both stylistically and culturally . Some artists do leave distinct features of the Japanese race , but because of the way other proportions are pushed in different directions that information tends to get lost . If you look at something more well - known , like Naruto , it was intentional . Masishi Kishimoto said in an early interview with Shonen Jump that he designed a lot of the characters with a western influence because he thought that would help make it more appealing to a western audience , thus the blue eyes and blonde hair . However , if you take something with your standard moe
You have just been introduced to capitalism ! They have a monopoly on the graphing calculator world , they are the one accepted by College Board . I know of at least one other brand but the calculators made by TI are sometimes more advanced by the 84 but not allowed . As a result of not being allowed to be more advanced the barriers of entry are much greater for competition they ca n't advertise as more advanced because a tester would be cheating and they ca n't go by brand because they ca n't build the brand as the most advanced calculator . So TI has minimal competition , it is likely that they have brought costs down .
Specifically regarding title / text overlays , they would press plates with what they wanted it to say against the back of the film , and heat it up , which would melt the wax on the back . This was then washed off , leaving a clear spot where the letters were . This was invented in 1932 . As for a lot of other special effects , I 'm sure they just used miniatures for a lot .
Anyone can make a cryptocurrency . But very , very few people have the technical and mathematical know - how to make it secure , the business savvy to make it fly , and the persistence to keep it going . Basically , you need to come up with a fundamentally secure way for people to anonymously transfer wealth , come up with a way to make that wealth worth something , and convince a lot of people to go along with it .
They run ads . Some ads show up in the sidebar ( above recommended videos ) , some pop up while the video is playing , and some play before the video . The more people view the video , the more views the ad gets as well , and the companies running the ads pay to have the ads seen . The YouTuber gets a portion of this money .
communism is n't bad at all and works wonderfully in a small scale . look into the zapatista 's in chiapas mexico for a modern day working example . however , when you bring the nation - state into the picture , it becomes the state itself owning everything and everyone . so , communism = fine ( for certain societies ) . state - communism = fucking evil
Going to restate what others have said with boyles law . Boyles law states that p1v1 = p2v2 . In other words . Pressure is inversely proportiomal to volume . As pressure increases , the gas gets compressed so the volume decreases . It applies to this case when we look at the other side of the law , that when pressure decreases , the volume of the gas increases . So if you are 200 feet underwater , there is going to be a ton of pressure on that gas , so it will compress . If you rise up to the surface very quickly , the pressure will decrease fast enough for your body to be unable to respond properly to the change , and therefore the gas will expand in the same manner , which obviously can cause some serious problems for your health .
A Battleship is an obsolete type of ship that exists in no current navy . They have thick armour and large guns . A Cruiser is a ship that is designed to be able to run independently of a fleet , even though they were quite often found in fleets . They were considered the poor country 's Battleships . They had thick armour and big guns , but not to the same standard of a Battleship . Destroyers and Frigates are pretty similar and what one nation calls one another will call the other . They were generally small ships that were for things such as escorting larger ships ( they would be the picket line of defence ) and also for submarine hunting . You also had Battlecruisers which were more lightly armoured Battleships . They could hit as hard as a Battleship but could n't take as much damage in return . Aircraft Carriers kind of describe themselves . Submarines operate under the water . WW2 subs usually operated on the surface and only submerged when the enemy was spotted . Today nuclear powered submarines can spend months under water . Minesweepers would detect and detonate mines . They used a variety of methods to do this . One would be to have large nets that would snag mines as the ship went along .
It 's an average at which a compromise occurs between holding the audience 's interest and attention and the feeling of getting value for money paid . Any longer and the brain starts thinking about doing other things ; any shorter and the brain starts thinking it 's been ripped off because it paid for a certain " duration " of entertainment . A half - hour flick is n't interesting enough to invest in a trip to the movie theater . Kids movies are usually shorter than adult drama features because younger audiences have less of an attention span and have a much greater sense of the passing of time ( which is why rainy afternoons lasted forever and killed us with boredom as toddlers but we barely remember them passing as adults ) . All of this can be overridden if you are really into something that immerses you like a videogame , and it 's more about averages than about individual watchers .
The European standard for measuring acceleration is the time for 0 - 100 * kilometers * per hour . This is converts to about 0 - 62 mph which was then rounded down , so both numbers are very similar and can be easily compared . The quarter mile seems to come from quarter horse racing ( [ source ] ( URL_0 ) ) , but I figure that this is just a good distance that is not too short ( cars do n't reach max speed ) and not too long ( difficult to find , cars drive max speed for the majority of the track ) .
Buildings are generally not carcinogenic because the components that can cause cancer are solid parts and are behind drywall or ceiling panels . But burn a whole bunch of that building to transform substances into toxic smoke , and then bring the whole thing down in a massive dust - producing implosion , and the massive impact atomizes a lot of these components , freeing them to travel and ride concrete dust into peoples ' throats and lungs , often for years afterward when rubble is moved and dust is disturbed again .
They all work by blocking the H1 histamine receptor , but they have different molecular structures that change how they move through the body and how well they block the receptor . Benadryl only lasts for several hours , while the others last about a day . Benadryl is much more able to cross from the body into the brain than the others , and cause drowsiness , since histamine in the brain regulates wakefulness .
The first wave of colonization began and the natives got royally fucked . Diseases like Smallpox , Typhoid Fever , and Measles devastated the native population who had no natural immunity to it . There was estimated to be at most 90 millions Native Americans scattered across the Americas , and many as 90 % were killed off by disease alone . What was left of the natives were often enslaved or driven off by the technologically superior European Settlers who arrived in droves to either escape persecution or make money . As for records there are some , but almost entirely from the European side of things . Priests and scholars were in short supply in the New World and much of the Native documentation was destroyed and or considered heretical .
Here 's a good start URL_0 Different Occupations usually do different things that are specific to the place that they are , as far as tangible actions go . And as others have said the wider movement has brought a lot of issues into focus that were swept under the rug ) Wealth gap , police militarization / brutality etc etc ) . I do n't know if Occupy will be the vessel of social change it wanted / needed to be , but it was definitely a catalyst
You should check with the Office of Student Affairs (or equivalent) at your University to see if you can accept Credit Cards. Many will only allow you to accept student organization dues paid in cash, check, or money order. Many universities will also provide your organization with basic operating funds, if you request it. Your first point of contact should be your faculty adviser, though. Your best bet would be to just use cash. Learn where the nearest ATMs are. If you are set on using credit cards, set up a PayPal account and just use it to reimburse the person who fronts the money (cover the markup). Everyone will have to have a PayPal account set up, linked to their credit card. You can avoid fees by using a bank account. If you're so inclined, you can set up a Business account and have a PayPal Debit Card, but you'll want to check with your adviser / University by-laws to see if you're allowed. Don't expect any of these to work as website implementations. As you're a University group, you will undoubtedly be meeting in person such that an exchange of cash/check/money order would be trivial In short, you'll need to check into the rules of your University. Credit cards generally carry processing fees, charged to the merchant, which (on its own) carries some tax implications.
Because it is very important to the storytelling of the movie to add that tension , so in the story the bombmaker has designed the bomb to have countermeasures against someone finding it and trying to defuse it . This is n't impossible , of course , but in reality most bombmakers build them to just explode , with the idea that they will blow up long before anyone has a chance to " cut the blue wire " .
There are . The word " internet " means a network used to connect computers between remote facilities ( as opposed to intrAnet ) . " Internet " with a capital " I " is the conventional name given to the standards - based internet we all share , but there are plenty of internets not connected to the Internet , we just do n't call them that . We call them " Wide Area Networks " ( WANs ) and usually connect them to the Intranet through a firewall . But we do n't have to . It used to be common for companies to set up their own isolated WANs for security , but it 's much cheaper to connect modern sites over the Internet and secure them via crypto . This is called an " Extranet " , though the term is now used as an umbrella to cover both types of private internets .
Thanks for your question on Health Care Magic. I can understand your situation and problem. Swelling and stiffness in legs is commonly seen in right sided heart failure. You are also having chronic lung disease. These diseases in the later stages cause right sided heart failure. So better to first rule out this. So get done ecg and 2d echo. If both are normal then no need to worry for heart diseases. You also took chemotherapy. And sometimes chemotherapy can cause renal damage. This can also cause lower limb swelling. So also get done renal function test (creatinine and urea). So consult doctor and discuss all these. Hope I have solved your query. Wish you good health. Thanks.
There are a number of ways to do it ... * * Some companies * * analyze set top box data from a large sample of households obtained from cable providers . Using models they are able to estimate the viewership of a channel , show or even commercial . There 's a lot that goes into it . For examples , a TV is on in a multi - person household , but was the TV left on for the cat while everyone is at work or is everyone in the household watching it at the same time ? What are the demos of those in the household ? How do you identify the show / commercial being played ? What constitutes viewership ? 1 second of watching a show or start to finish ? Oh shit , what about channel flippers ? This is all sort of a new school approach to measurement - we 'll call it the big data approach . * * Nielsen * * ~~is garbage and nobody in the industry likes their data but it 's like a gf you 've been dating for too long , do n't love but you bought a house together so you 're forever finally tied to her and every night when you come home ... ~~they take meter type devices setup alongside set top boxes in select homes and extrapolate those households to a total US population . They also use diaries ... literally people writing
It 's not America vs Britain , really . It 's the US vs the entire English speaking world . We say zed in Canada too , as they do in Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Ireland , etc . It 's generally believed to have resulted from American drives to simplify usage in the 19th century , by analogy with bee , cee , dee , etc . But nobody is really all that certain why the US changed the pronunciation .
GM has many more shares out , so each share is worth less . The net value of all shares ( the company 's " market cap " ) for GM is 44.2 billion , more than double Tesla 's . Even at that valuation , I would argue that Tesla is overpriced , likely due to overenthusiastic investors buying into hype .
A 2015 model would not be released to the public until 3Q of 2014 . However , the design for the 2015 model would have to certainly be locked down sometime in 2013 . Thus if the manufacturer is trying to build hype for the car , auto journalists may start getting looks at the 2015 model as early as sometime in 2013 . Meanwhile I 'd imagine design on many 2016 models is underway .
Okay , you know how a mailman comes to your house every day , it 's kinda like that for amazon , except instead of your house , it is a warehouse with thousands and thousands of items shipped every day . If you order it later in the day , you 've likely missed the delivery company 's pickup , so you have to wait till the next one . Another thing that might be a cause for amazon taking more than one day is that they can only physically ship or set up postage for so many items per day , so if there are lots of people ordering one day , it may take another day or two to process the shipments .
Because it is dense . Lead is n’t the only thing that can be used . To protect yourself against gamma radiation you want to put a lot of electrons in between yourself and the radiation source , and this is best done by putting something dense between them . You could just as well have massive walls of wood to achieve the same effect , but lead walls would be thinner and easier to handle as a result of their density . Ironically enough , this also means Uranium is a better shield against gamma radiation ( while Uranium does produce alpha radiation , it produces pretty much no gamma radiation , alpha radiation can be stopped by a piece of paper ) . Lead of course is far cheaper but sometimes Uranium is the better choice .
They are actually both undergraduate texts; however, Investments is FAR more complex. Essentials of Investments really waters down the statistical and mathematical notation while Investments does not. Investments also has an entire section (4-5 chapters) called options, futures, and other derivatives while Essentials of Investments does not. [Of course, if you want to learn about options, futures, and other derivatives, there is a seminal book by John Hull with that exact title.] That notwithstanding, neither book is sophisticated enough to be considered a true graduate school textbook in quantitative investment theory. No grad schools worth their salt are going to rely too heavily on Investments in a specialized finance curriculum. It's a great book to start out, though.
The brain automatically tries to balance our perception to a reasonable white balance which means a tinted lens or lighting will be compensated for given time . But once they are removed it also takes a while to adjust back . Ultimately this tendency probably goes back to some very basic functions of nerves which reduce response to repetitive sensations .
I saw a comment on a post earlier than explained it pretty well . Say I have $ 5 , Tom has nothing , and Ted has nothing . If I lend Tom $ 5 , and then Tom lends Ted $ 5 , I am broke . If I borrow $ 5 from Ted , tv here has been $ 15 of debt created
I made a diagram : URL_0 Without centripetal force , you 're throwing the bucket of water in a straight line . With centripetal force ( provided by the tension in the rope ) pulling the bucket inward , you have a second vector to add to the bucket 's straight line that causes it to constantly change direction and appear to want to move outward or in a circle , depending on how you think about it . e : It 's easy to get this mixed up . Basically , you 're adding vectors : if one thing 's pulling " so " hard and another thing is pushing " so " hard , you just add them up to find out the end result . That 's exactly what 's happening here . You 're adding the direction that the bucket would move if you let go of it ( ie , a straight line in its current direction of motion ) to centripetal force , which is directly towards the point around which it 's rotating . The two together produce a constantly changing direction of motion , which looks like a circle .
Not all electronics need to be turned off during take off and landing . Have you seen any airline requesting a passenger to turn off his pacemaker or even electronic watches ? Generally only those electronics which emit waves such as mobiles or laptops need to be turned off . This is because the equipment on air crafts is highly sensitive and an aberrant signal can mess up with the automated procedures . However , for the sake of easiness , the airlines usually ask the passengers to switch of all electronic instruments . They just ca n't go on assessing which might emit radio waves and which wo n't .
With an annual income of $120,000 you can be approved for a $2800 monthly payment on your mortgage. The trickier problem is that you will save quite a bit on that mortgage payment if you can avoid PMI, which means that you should be targeting a 20% down-payment on your next purchase. With a $500,000 budget for a new home, that means you should put $100,000 down. You only have $75,000 saved, so you can either wait until you save another $25,000, or you can refinance your current property for $95k+ $25k = $120k which would give you about a $575 monthly payment (at 30 years at 4%) on your current property. Your new property should be a little over $1,900 per month if you finance $400,000 of it. Those figures do not include property tax or home owners insurance escrow payments. Are you prepared to have about $2,500 in mortgage payments should your renters stop paying or you can't find renters? Those numbers also do not include an emergency fund. You may want to wait even longer before making this move so that you can save enough to still have an emergency fund (worth 6 months of your new higher expenses including the higher mortgage payment on the new house.) I don't know enough about the rest of your expenses, but I think it's likely that if you're willing to borrow a little more refinancing your current place that you can probably make the numbers work to purchase a
An addiction is the consumption of something that gives pleasure that leads to a compulsion that has negative effects the longer it 's consumed . Gambling , alcohol , pornography etc Water is required for the body to survive and it 's only negative quality is desalination of the body if over consumed . So no , entirely different things .
ELI12 : Lets say you 're playing checkers with someone you 've played with a multitude of times . Over these games you 've observed how they play , and use that to your advantage . You know how they will react to different situations , so you ease them into doing what you want them to do . ELI5 : Lets say you are in a sandbox and see one of your peers playing with a toy you want to play with . You know in * advance * that your peer wo n't trade toys with you , wo n't take a dollar from you either but has a weakness for peanut mnms . You offer them candy , and you get the toy .
In simple terms : everything , from gases to solids , is made out of particles . Particles attract to each other , they all have a mass , and the bigger the mass ( densityXvolume ) the more gravity the object has . Everything has gravity , even you , only you are too little to notice it . So the gas particles attracted each other , forming groups which were bigger , which therefore attracted more more particles , and therefore their " group " grew . A planet is just a big ball of this stuff . Fun fact : in the beginning , earth was actually all made out of gas too . This gravitational force is what keeps it together ( just like ours is what keeps earth together ) . Space is literally that : space , so the gas was the stuff that was floating about . It is a planet because it is a celestial body orbiting a star .
I ’ve had depression since I was 4 or 5 , I ’m now 33 . It ’s different for everyone . If I had to generalize my depression ( I would n’t dare to try to represent anyone else ’s ) it would be “ A massive lingering unsatisfaction with everything , the inability to believe anything could ever be improved upon ( especially by me ) . Plus even if it could , would it matter ? ” Depression is plenty of sadness , tiredness , dread , fear paranoia , denial , resentment , guilt , shame , hate , sensitivity and LOTS constant dreary uncertainty . As well as massive lacks of motivation , hope , inspiration , attention and willingness ( It ’s amazing how much stuff “ I just bother ” doing too . Even plenty of stuff I feel like and want to do . ) I never know what ’s making me feel these ways . I ’ll look for reasons ( even though a lot of times there is n’t one ) . Never sure if the reason is what made me upset or it just something I found because I was looking for something making me upset . It ’s also likely my perception of what ’s happening is a byproduct of me misinterpreting what I see because of the very strong feelings I have and the problem may not have even happen in the first place . So I
Because alcohol impairs the Prefrontal Cortext , where your decisions are made . Alcohol is a poison which is why you get drunk off of it , which i m sure you know . Alcohol is not supposed to be in your body , getting drunk and vomiting is the bodies reaction to the foreign substance , but i digress .
Hi , I 'm a meteorologist , maybe I can help , hopefully in ELI5 terms which are not misleading . Water stays up in the air due to several factors . Air , particularly moist air , is very buoyant . Dry , cold air is heavier than moist air , so dry air sinks to the ground , displacing the moist air , and one place it 's displaced to is above the dry air . All this moving around causes winds , etc , and adds to the buoyancy , and creates " upward vertical motion " ( simply air moving straight up ) , which helps to push air aloft . Additionally , sun shining causes surface heating , which , in turn , also contributes to keeping certain air parcels aloft . The moist air clings to small particles ( dust , etc ) called " Cloud Condensation Nuclei " or CCNs . Eventually , so much moist air clings to these CCNs that water droplets form . At this stage , the " upward vertical motion " decribed earlier continues to hold the water droples aloft , until either a temperature equilibrium in the lower levels is reached and the air is no longer strong enough to hold the moisture up , or else so much water accumulates that , again , the air can no longer support the water droples , and they fall to the earth . To answer your second question
Because in America , the service industry has lobbied congress and they 've been allowed to pay their workers below the minimum wage . As a result , people are expected to tip to supplement their wages . Tippers help pay the salaries of employees , good tippers supplement poor tippers . An unfair system that should n't exist . However , it exists , and disagreeing with it does n't give you the excuse to be an asshole and not tip . People who do that are being exploitative and are essentially stealing .
If you are buying any product , such as airline tickets , where you believe there is any possibility you may develop a dispute later , make sure to use credit not debit , as your ability to dispute is increased . Large or fragile purchases - credit is required . A hamburger that you will eat in the next five minutes - debit is okay . I speak from recent personal experience that debit card disputes are hell . I had to spend 7 months of my life going to small claims court after the debit bank 's dispute policy was so ineffective and produced no refund . ( I won in court ) .
This is quite possibly the biggest line of shit I have ever heard . I 'm a cop . I scored 95 percent on my entrance test , and two others in my academy class scored 100 's . Not to mention that in our 3 month basic police academy , we had a person with his J.D. Graduate , and he is now a cop with me . We had over 300 applicants for 10 spots . They only took the people with the highest grades , best performance , and best academic scores in college . And this is in the middle of bumfuck Midwest America . Christ , we are not all inbred fucking idiots .
In a friendly takeover , both sides meet over lunch , discuss terms , shake hands , assets are exchanged , and everyone 's cool . That much is simple . In a hostile takeover , both sides meet over lunch , and one storms out of the room . The other does what it can to take the other side over . Pretty obvious , right ? An example ... So Big Mega Corp ( BMC ) wants to buy Joe Schmo Co. Joe Schmo takes one look at BMC 's offer , laughs , and says " no dice . " At this point , any takeover effort will be described as " hostile " -- there is no mutual interest in the takeover , just the interest of BMC . Joe Schmo Co. is a publicly traded company -- you can buy and sell Joe Schmo Co. stock on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the ticker " JSC " . BMC tells its stock brokers to buy every share of BMC they can , and so they do . Now , a fork in the road . Scenario A : BMC was able to buy 51 % of all available shares in JSC , and so has a clear majority of interest in the company . This means that when decisions are put before the shareholders , BMC owns 51 % of the vote . At the next shareholder meeting , BMC 's
What he mean by CI is that it is overarching and all encompassing . It is the opposite of relativism . It does not change nor does it matter on time / location . Think of it like 1 + 1=2 . This is true everywhere . The same thing but with morality . Lying = Bad . This is true everywhere ( for Kant ) . X = Y. This is true everywhere etc .
Hello and Welcome to ‘Ask A Doctor’ service. I have reviewed your query and here is my advice. I understand your concern and would explain that your symptoms could be related to the changes in your therapy. I would like to know your current therapy in order to give a more professional opinion. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.
I went into the doctors office for a checkup . I 'd been having trouble hearing for years , there was always shlorping and florpming noises in my ears , and they were generally bothering me , despite going to several doctors during that time , who I guess did n't look at my ears . So I went into this new doctor for a checkup , and they said there was a wax buildup , and proceeded to use some water pick on my ear for 1/2 hour . All of a sudden , it was like birth . I heard a " tunk " in a pan next to my ear , and the nurse said , " Check this out . " There was green earwax the diameter of my ear canal , about 1/4 " , and about 2 1/2 inches long . Holy * shit ! * That was one huge - ass slobber of earwax . I 'm so bummed I did n't take a picture , or keep it and bronze it . It was epic , in the true meaning of epic . And I hear perfectly now . Looking in ears is important . It is only bothersome when doctors to it , until it is n't . Earwax buildup is icky .
I had a Lab that would eat my poop . Got locked out once without the keys . You got ta go , you got ta go . Who knew it would turn out to be a teaching moment to learn something new about dogs . I never let her lick me again though after that . Never again .
Evolution is used to describe things , not prescribe things . Evolution is the context of a living thing and the way it 's adapted to its world . We ca n't sit back and say things * should * be a certain way because that 's baseless . Humans develop in the womb the way they do because of evolution . It 's just how it happened . The size of a human infant in utero is pretty large . For a human to carry multiple children without the aid of modern medicine is n't always the greatest or easiest . Humans run , walk , move around , sit , stand - very difficult to do during certain stages of pregnancy .
Up until recently , we did n't really know . Turns out , they combine a natural compass with the ability to recognize landmarks . They know what direction they are supposed to go ( generally ) . To find their home , they literally use buildings , rivers , and roads that they recognize to hone in on their exact destination . A recent GPS tracking study showed that the pigeons actually followed roads and rivers to their destinations , even if they were n't the most efficient path .
It is n't practical to design a building as you describe . Electrical wires need to be run through conduit , ventilation passages need to exist , plumbing goes somewhere it can be accessed for maintenance , elevator shafts need to be open and straight . How do you design a stairway that humans can traverse but a 40 - foot blast of flame ca n't ? Add to that the fact concrete can crumble under extreme heat and you can make buildings fire-*resistant * but not completely fire - proof .
At your house , you have a security system . One of your windows is not covered by the security system , but you do n't know that . It 's something overlooked . You 're out at the movies . If someone went through that window and took a photo of your stuff ( did n't take your stuff ) and then left by that window , and closed the window , when you came back from the movies , would you notice ? Is there any way to know someone took a photo of your TV ? If your security system was working on that window , there would be a record of " activity " and then you have to assume what happened specifically . The big deal about information security is that only one thing needs to be missed ( or not getting properly watched ) . And this could be something that was working fine before , but some employee wanted to stream game of thrones from somewhere and opened up a hole in security that went unnoticed . IT departments at large companies are like cat herders . It 's incredibly difficult to make sure the employees are n't unintentionally sabotaging the company by responding to phishing emails or doing something " innocent " by going to a website .
During the Cold War , the US built up a huge stockpile of helium . In the 90 's , they decided they did n't need it anymore , and sold it off . That caused helium to become very cheap , so cheap it was no longer profitable to extract it from natural gas , so people stopped trying and let it escape into the atmosphere . Well , the US stockpile is now completely sold off , and helium is getting more expensive . People are starting to collect it again , but it will take a few years for them to catch up with demand . Until then , helium will be expensive . Bottom line , there really is n't a shortage , just a massive fluctuation in supply due to other factors .
It would cost a lot , especially compared to just burying it inside a mountain . Also , while rockets have a much better success rate than they once did they still have regular failures . Consider the fact that out of 130 space flights of the space shuttle two were catastrophic failures resulting in the loss of the vehicle and crew . That 's a failure rate just better than 2 % . Would you want a rocket full of nuclear sludge blowing up over your continent ?
API is like a users manual - for writing code . Car analogy : car designers made their car a certain way . To drive , modify , or fix the car , you should read the manual . An API contains all the ways to use the code that google has created . It is an interface for how to write code using their libraries .
Adaptive ( specific ) immunity . Doctors are exposed to a wide range of viral strains , therefore their body develops a stronger immune response to each sequential exposure ( body can more quickly identify the antigen of the pathogen and deliver a faster and more effective immune response ) . Therefore they do get sick often their first few years on the job , but their immune systems continue to adapt and improve . This is like how a vaccine works . Therefore future exposure to COMMON pathogens are unlikely to make them " sick " . Additionally , they wash their hands frequently , and often wear gloves when touching the patient .
Alternating sequences are easier to keep track of IMO . 31 , 30 , 31 , 30 , 31 , 30 ... etc . is easier than 31 , 31 , 31 , 31 , 31 , 31 , 30 , 30 , 30 , 30 , 30 , because there is a reasonable pattern . Truth is , it was just decided that this was the best way . I 'm not sure there is a documented reason .
Kurt Friedrich Gödel (/ˈɡɜːrdəl/ GUR-dəl, German: [kʊʁt ˈɡøːdl̩] (listen); April 28, 1906 – January 14, 1978) was a logician, mathematician, and philosopher. Considered along with Aristotle and Gottlob Frege to be one of the most significant logicians in history, Gödel had an immense effect upon scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century, a time when others such as Bertrand Russell, Alfred North Whitehead, and David Hilbert were using logic and set theory to investigate the foundations of mathematics, building on earlier work by the likes of Richard Dedekind, Georg Cantor and Frege. Gödel published his first incompleteness theorem in 1931 when he was 25 years old, one year after finishing his doctorate at the University of Vienna. The first incompleteness theorem states that for any ω-consistent recursive axiomatic system powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (for example Peano arithmetic), there are true propositions about the natural numbers that can be neither proved nor disproved from the axioms. To prove this, Gödel developed a technique now known as Gödel numbering, which codes formal expressions as natural numbers. The second incompleteness theorem, which follows from the first, states that the system cannot prove its own consistency. Gödel also showed that neither the axiom of choice nor the continuum hypothesis can be disproved from the accepted Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, assuming that its axioms are consistent. The former result opened the door for mathematicians to assume the axiom of choice in their proofs. He also made important contributions to
There was an interesting point that my sociology of cultures teacher brought up , that if laws were made to serve the majority , it would lead to up to 49 % of the population being marginalized and discriminated against . It leads to a situation of classes and power differentials . Laws are better off made to serve the needs of the minority groups in a community / society . In this way the majority still has their freedoms and rights and will always be more privileged , but no one is left out of the equality . It took me a while to wrap my head around it but I really agree with that position now . I also believe that there is always a disparity between the speed a society evolves , grows and improves , and the speed at which individual members of society are able to adapt or grow as people . It takes a lot of personal introspection and energy to , for example , change the way you see someone of a different race after a lifetime of believing something that is actually wrong but is the bedrock of your belief system . Change is scary , and shaking the very foundation of what a person has thought their whole life is a scary place for them , so sometimes people have to be pushed a little , and even if they go the rest of their lives believing that change was wrong
A common misconception is that the problem has to do with " hitting the system too hard " . Like if you were trying to figure out where a truck was by slamming cars into it and listening for the crash : that will tend to push the truck around . Actually the problem is much more fundamental . Even a magical device that measured the position of an electron without bouncing any stuff off of that electron would disturb the state of the electron in a detectable way . Are you familiar with polarizers ? When light moves , it waves back and forth . That waving has a direction . It can wave up and down ( vertically ) , left and right ( horizontally ) , diagonally , whatever . A polarizer is a grating that blocks light waving against the grating from passing through . It only lets light that 's waving along the grating pass through . But something interesting happens when light waving * diagonally * to the grating is passed through a polarizer . The light is partially let through , and * afterwards will be waving along the grating 's direction * . You can use a polarizer to figure out how some unknown light is polarized . Pass the light through the polarizer and see how much light is let through as you turn the polarizer . Assuming the light does n't contain a mix of polarizations , there will be
Say there are 2000 people , and one of them is going to die over the next year , but you do n't know which one . Then you each pitch in say , $ 100 , and whoever dies , their family gets the total pot of $ 200,000 . The reason the payout looks so big compared to how much you pitch in is because only one in 2000 people actually gets the payout . This is a simple case . In real life , the principle is the same , but insurance companies have to do crazy math to figure out what price to charge .
Before opening , the jar is sealed to preserve it so bacteria and oxygen ca n't get in , after opening oxygen and dust particles containing bacteria and mold spores get in and in warm temperatures these bacteria 's grow extremely fast . The refrigeration does n't stop this rather slows it down to keep the food safe enough for human consumption for a few weeks .
It 's usually a synonym for " I agree " in common speech , but there 's a little nuance there : " I agree " means " I believe you 're right . " " I disagree " means " I believe you 're wrong . " " I do n't disagree " means " I do n't believe that you 're wrong , but I might not be convinced that you 're right . " It 's sort of the equivalent of a court finding someone " Not guilty . " We never find someone " innocent , " because you do n't have to prove innocence . You just have to show that the evidence for " guilty " is n't convincing enough . " Not guilty " does n't mean " I think you 're innocent , " it just means " You could honestly be guilty , but I 'm not convinced enough of it to say so with certainty . "
Direct foreign investment raises a country 's GDP * . The government gives a subsidy to increase the incentive to invest , where the GDP of the province and country both rise as a result . Investment goes up , output goes up in the long run . A business would have no reason to invest in a country if there was no incentive . Everything is profit - driven . The business will invest in whichever place will give them the most incentive . If that so happens to be Canada , then Canada 's GDP will increase . GDP / output increases , then demand of labour increases , making job opportunities . * GDP - The measure of all of the * * final * * goods / services that are produced in a country . Foreign business or not , if it is produced in Canada , then it goes towards the Canadian GDP .
People do n't need * that * much protein to grow healthy tissue . Babies and children get plenty of protein from regular - ass food ( not to be confused with regular ass - food ) . Breast milk has a lot of protein , as well as fats , carbohydrates , vitamins and minerals , which you also need to make killer gainz bro . You could argue it 's the most " well - balanced " diet out there . I 'm slightly disappointed that you , /u / bigbouncytitties , did not know this . The only thing a baby would gain(z ) from drinking protein shakes is the foulest diarrhea ever .
Using the following equations from the book a stab at the correlation can be made. Calculating the residual volatilities from equation 2.4 The correlation of stock A with stock B is 0.378 and stock B has the higher residual volatility. However, the correlation is given as a "simple model", which may suggest that it is an approximation. If I have applied it correctly, some testing shows that it is only approximate. Also of interest
# # # The Problem You are a contestant on a game show . There are three doors , and you must pick one of them . Behind one of the doors is a new car . Behind the other two is nothing ( or a goat in the original game show , which is arguably worse than nothing ) . You pick a door . The host then opens a door that you * did n't * pick , revealing no prize . * He will always reveal a door with no prize . * He then asks if you want to stay with your first choice , or switch your pick to the other unopened door . So the question is : Do you switch doors or stay with your first choice , or does it matter at all ? * * * * * # # # The Answer You should always switch . There is a 1/3 chance that you picked the winning door at first , and a 2/3 chance that you picked a losing door . If you picked the winning door and switch , you will always lose . If you picked a losing door and switch , you will always win . So if you switch , there is a 2/3 chance that you will win , and a 1/3 chance that you will lose .
$15 - $5 = $10 How did you possibly buy a put for less than the intrinsic value of the option, at $8.25 So we can infer that you would have had to get this put when the stock price was AT LEAST $6.75, but given the 3 months of theta left, it was likely above $7 The value of the put if the price of the underlying asset (the stock ABC) meandered between $5 - $7 would be somewhere between $10 - $8 at expiration. So you don't really stand to lose much in this scenario, and can make a decent gain in this scenario. I mean decent if you were trading stocks and were trying to beat the S&P or keep up with Warren Buffett, but a pretty poor gain since you are trading options! If the stock moves above $7 this is where the put starts to substantially lose value.
This is one of those myths the media loves to perpetuate every year because they are lazy and it 's an easy fluff story . Anther common one you will see year in and year out is about how dangerous Halloween candy is . Here are two articles about it . One is from snopes and the other is a rare salon article that actually has sources . URL_1 URL_0
First off , let me make the disclaimer that I am talking * only * about the United States . Osteopathy outside the US has a very different scope of practice . The story begins with A.T. Still , a Civil War era surgeon . After losing three children to spinal meningitis , he became disillusioned with the medical establishment . Keep in mind that this was 19th century America so thinks like opium and arsenic were commonly given to patients . To make matters worse , Still was a surgeon and at that time , surgery was so crude and unsanitary that it probably caused more deaths than cures . So Still investigates different types of treatments . Everything , really . Magnetic healing , hydropathy , if it was an alternative treatment , he tried it . Long story short , he somehow came to the conclusion that all diseases could be traced back to the musculoskeletal system . He devised a system where supposedly a practitioner could treat diseases by manipulating the bones and muscles of a patient . Needless to say ( but I ’m going to say this anyway since you have some overzealous osteopathic advocates who argue otherwise ) , this is completely bunk . There ’s not a shred of scientific data to support the idea that all diseases can be traced back to the musculoskeletal system or that certain manipulations of the body can cure diseases . Medical knowledge has come a
One thing that is constantly argued about when it comes to the homosexual population is whether or not they have a * choice * in this preference or if it is pre - determined by genetics . While I never thought too hard on this topic since its results did n't effect me too much , I do have a few articles that might help explain this ( or help explain why this is unexplainable ) . I recall stumbling upon a " gay " test on reddit before , which has its bearings . * * Homosexual men and women tend to exhibit traits of the opposite gender * * ( please refer to [ this ] ( URL_0 ) and [ this ] ( URL_1 ) article ) . So gay men tend to be more " feminine " and lesbian women tend to be more " masculine " . This may be the reason why gay men have voices that sound " gay " , because they are simply exhibiting more feminine traits , but I 'll just quote the article itself : > " But some researchers have noted that gay men are likely to have finger - length ratios more in line with those of straight women , and a study of self - described “ butch ” lesbians showed significantly masculinized ratios . The same goes for the way we hear , the way we process spatial reasoning , and even the ring of
A lot of television entertainment as we know it today was carried over from the live theater ( also by way of radio ) , so in a sense , they were theatrical performances that happened to be recorded and broadcast . So in the early days of sitcoms , that 's kind of how they set things up -- each episode would be a little play in front of an audience , who would obviously laugh and react to the action they watched in front of them . The TV audience got used to this format over the decades , so even shows that did n't have a live audience ( animated shows like the Flintstones , single - camera sitcoms like Bewitched ) included an artificial laugh track . And yeah , there is something sort of psychologically comforting about it , our instinctive itch to belong being scratched by laughing along with others , even if the others are on the other side of the screen . I 'm not one of those narrow - minded , cynical types who think that a laugh track is an indicator that the show is somehow cheesy or unsophisticated -- many of television 's most important and genuinely funniest sitcoms have had laugh tracks . Also ridiculous is the assumption that single - camera , non - laugh - track shows are automatically superior -- there've been plenty of stinkers over the years since they 've come into fashion .
Also , Canada has had a long tradition of keeping its institutions fairly independent of who 's the guy in charge , people might not like the PM , but trust in institutions has always been relatively high . The Parliamentary system is good for this because Parliament is the elected body and the greatest authority in the country , as Canadians elect their Members of Parliament ( MP ) to represent them . The Prime Minister is just the leader of the party with the most MPs , he 's not directly chosen to be the head of government . Take into account that in the US the President is both the head of government ( the guy who runs the executive ) but also the head of State ( the guy who represents Americans and the US as a nation ) . In Canada , the head of State is the Queen , represented by a Governor General . They only have a ceremonial role , but the important thing is that Harper is * not * the head of State . Against all this , Harper has decided to run the country according to his own principles and ideas ( and of those closest to him ) . As others have said , he has a majority in Parliament , but a majority of Canadians did not vote for his party . Besides just applying the policies * he * likes ( and not those most Canadians
A video came out about the Prophet Muhammad that depicted him as a child molester and wife beater . I believe someone out in california uploaded it to youtube . ( i m not sure , but he could be publicly pro israel ) i m relaying what my cousin told me . The more fanatical muslims of the world are overreacting . Edit : wording , spelling
Something you have to remember is that birds * are * dinosaurs , and inherited their bipedalism from their ancestors . As to why many species are not primarily bipedal , bipedalism has some advantages ( it raises the head , increasing the field of view and making it easier to climb and wade ) it also has severe disadvantages . Walking on two legs puts a lot of strain on the hips and lower back . To compensate , the hips narrow . This makes birthing more difficult and painful , which in turn leads to earlier births ( so that the baby is n't as large ) which in turn leads to more vulnerable , helpless , and slow growing children . Lower back problems are also common as people grow , which makes them more vulnerable to predation . Four legged movement eliminates some of these problems , increases speed , and makes crouching / hiding easier ( good for both predators and prey ) . It 's also theorized that humans adapted to an endurance model of hunting , simply exhausting prey until they could n't run anymore , then killing them , of which bipedalism is a byproduct to multiple skeletal and muscular changes .
It would be nice to have a simple answer for this , but there honestly is n't one . Narrowing it down to specific years , models , Engine choice , Transmission choice , Drive train configurations is a good starting point to begin to compare vehicles . I.E. A 2001 - 2002 Ford Explorer 's automatic transmissions are known to be not so reliable , although the V6 4.0L SOHC Engines they are mated to are known to be extremely reliable . Problems start out usually because of unforeseen engineering problems . Unfortunately testing these complex systems is very expensive and often they can get mass produced before the problem is identified . When problems on newer vehicles ( especially vehicles under warranty ) get taken to a dealership for repairs , the mechanics will document the work . Other sets of people including engineers will sift through that information and try to find the source of the problem . The solution can often be a recall , where you take your vehicle in and they replace a faulty part , or sometimes they will just fix them at the factory for the next model years and sort of say " screw it " for all the vehicles that they have already sold . Sad but true . Some vehicles have a reputation of being ' bullet proof ' , which basically means they 're really well engineered . All makes have some extremely long lasting vehicles , and
Correlation means that , for example , at the same time there 's more of A , there 's more of B , and when there 's less of A , there 's less of B. But that does n't establish that either A causes B , or that B causes A. There is a correlation between roosters crowing and the sun coming up . But this does not mean that the rooster crowing causes the sun to come up . There is a correlation between having a red car and getting a lot of speeding tickets . Pretty clearly getting speeding tickets does n't cause cars to be red , but people might believe that the police are more inclined to give tickets to red cars . Maybe , maybe not . It could also be that the real cause is that drivers who like to drive fast also like red cars . So it 's the nature of the driver that 's the cause , not either the tickets or the color of the car .
to put it simply , our nerves have gates that allow certain information to pass , when your scratching the itch yourself those gates are competing with each other to send information about pleasure , as well as touch and muscle contraction . Having someone else do it means there is only the pleasure sensation needing to be sent through those gates , so the pleasure is stronger . an example of this is when your foot falls asleep and it feels like there are hot pins and needles in it . when the flow stops the nerves that react to touch and pressure stop , but the various pain receptors maintain priority and get what little oxygen is in the blood . so once you start using it those pain receptors are n't competing with anything and it 's all you feel .
I think the easiest way to explain it is : 1/9 = 0.111 ... , and 9 x 0.111 ... would be 0.999 ... for the same reason that 4 x 111 = 444 . So we have 9 x 1/9 = 0.999 ... , and 9 x 1/9 = 9/9 = 1 . So we have 1 = 0.999 ...
Well , they do move out of position . However , because they are so far away , we observe these changes at a very slow rate to our naked eye . If you know your history of astronomy well , you will note that the positions of our constellations today are however fairly different compared to say , what the ancients saw when they viewed the sky , or even from the time of Jesus . Forensic astronomy uses this concept of position change to make inferences on the chronology of historical events . On a daily or yearly basis as you note , the changes are not very significant , but on the order of centuries and millennium , the constellations do appear to more significantly change and be different .
This is so completely ridiculous . As a nation , the US ( supposedly ) prides itself on not ( usually ) crumbling to terrorists threats . If we alter our way of life , based on fear , terrorists win . It is a goddamn movie . The people of North Korea do not even know of it 's existence . They have no connection to the civilized world . So , what is the matter ? Who does it hurt ? Do people really think that a comedy starring a Canadian stonner Seth Rogen and squinty eyed James Franco will result in global uprising ? Come on .... Where was the hostility when Team America came out ? What made that so different ? Puppets ? Shit , I mean , The Interview is probably going to be just dick jokes the whole time . When it comes to comedy the point is clear : either everything can be lampooned and joked about or nothing at all . It is that simple . This is the school of Mel Brooks . Trey Parker , Matt Stone , and Seth McFarlene abide by the code ( with a few executives pulling material ) . Stand - Up Comedians like Dave Attell , Lisa Lampanelli , and many others also abide by this . Once we filter and censor comedy , then it loses all meaning . We lose basic human will to decide . This does not mean that
In california the supreme court ruled it unconstitutional so it is n't legal there . In other states the courts have not found it unconstitutional , because ( according to the courts ) it was n't a means to discourage men , but a means to increase the number of women attending , like seniors discounts , or student discounts .
> All this money and a few WoMD will wipe everything out . Which is why nuclear arms exist . We follow a strategy of Mutually Assured Destruction ( MAD ) . If two countries went to war with nuclear weapons , both sides have enough bombs and enough ways to get those bombs places that both sides lose . So nobody plays . Beyond that , using weapons like that does n't achieve objectives . The point if war is n't really to go out and kill people . We usually want something the other side has . Land , resources , people etc . So if I want your field of cows , dropping a nuclear bomb on it does me no good . Now there 's no cows for me to have . OR because someone else is picking on us and our friends and we go help . In which case we do n't want to bomb our friends cow field to help save their cows . So I have to send a friend over to kill you . But you have a bigger gun . So my guy sits in a truck with steel plates . You get a bigger truck with a bigger gun . My guy gets a friend who can fly a plane . You get a friend who can shoot missiles at planes and on and on we go . The United States has a lot of friends who need looking
I do nt see a good comment yet that explains the fact " Film " has a far higher resolution than 1080p already , and always did . The image quality is already stored in the film . The reason the movies were not shown in 1080p was because the technology to display the film at its maximum level of detail was not available . yes , The film " back to the future " was shot on has greater than 1080p definition . But its pointless when TV 's could only display 420p or w / e. Thus the VHS 's for example were " formatted " down to 420p etc etc . Digital technology on the whole has far less resolution than the original film stock . Digitals primary advantage is ease of transfer and editing and uniformity of display medium . They do not even have to " Apply digital or computer algorithms " . Film again already has a greater than 1080p resolution . How do you think cinemas worked ? Using " Film " they were able to give you a higher quality picture than a typical television set fixed at 3 - 500p on a surface several hundered times the size . So really , the movies in the cinemas in the 80 's actually were around 20 - 30,000 P if not more .. P just = pixels per line . They do not need to enhance anything , the image quality is
It was the death of [ Hu Yaobang ] ( URL_1 ) , General Secretary of the CCP of that time , that led to the Tiananmen Square protests in 1969 . Hu Yaobang strived for economical and political reforms in China . At first people came to Tiananmen Square to commemorate him and later students came to Tiananmen Square to protest for freedom of speech , freedom of the press , more political parties in the parliament , and so on . Those protests were ended on June 4 1989 by tanks and soldiers entering the Tiananmen Square and civilians being killed . And of course the [ unknown Tank Man ] ( URL_2 ) became an icon of the Tianamen Square protests . [ Video ] ( URL_0 )
It really is n't nearly as common as television and movies would have you believe . A United States Department of Justice report , Sexual Victimization in Prisons and Jails Reported by Inmates , states that " In 2011 - 12 , an estimated 4.0 % of state and federal prison inmates and 3.2 % of jail inmates reported experiencing one or more incidents of sexual victimization by another inmate or facility staff in the past 12 months or since admission to the facility , if less than 12 months . " Some reports say that as much as 50 % of the attacks are done by guards and prison staff .
Hi and welcome to Healthcaremagic. Thank you for your query. I am Dr. Rommstein, I understand your concerns and I will try to help you as much as I can.YOu should try with nonsteroid painkillers such as ibuprofenum or Ketorlac first.Strapping your affected finger or thumb to a plastic splint can ease your symptoms by stopping your finger moving. If your finger is particularly stiff in the morning, it may help to use a splint overnight. Corticosteroids are thought to work by reducing swelling of the tendon, allowing the tendon to move freely again. This can sometimes happen within a few days of having the injection, but it usually takes a few weeks.Sirgery is the last option and may be recommended if the above treatments don't work or are unsuitableI hope I have answered you query. If you have any further questions you can contact us in every time.Kindly regards. Wish you a good health.
There is no such thing as " devolution " . Because there is no " forwards evolution " . Evolution has no direction . It 's just things changing to better fit their environment . There is no other goal besides surviving better in your environment , and if you do n't do that better then your parents you die . edit - fixed evolution - > devolution
Let 's say you have a family . Your family has come to rely on your income to pay the bills , like the house payment , the car payment , and even put a little money aside for the kids college . But you decide to be a selfish son of a bitch , and die . Leaving your family without someone to earn an income to pay for the house and that other shit . You family would hate you eternally , and you would be sent to Hell for all of eternity . Life insurance will save you from Hell . Usually you can get the agent to set you a rate for a number of years that he does n't think you will die . Let 's say you are 35 years old . You may get a term life insurance policy for 25 years . Your payout should be at least 5 times your annual income . What does this mean ? The term length sets how long the rate ( amount of money you pay each month ) will be good for ( this case 25 years the insurance company ca n't charge you more for your insurance or cancel your policy . ) Five times your annual salary will ensure that your lazy spouse will have half a decade to stop screwing around a find someone to marry . Whole life will cover your burial , and not a lot more . The
Well it 's no surprise because we tend to be pretty mixed . Our origin comes from Christianity , but a lot of our traditions and practices are based on whatever new members bring to our community . Within Christianity there 's been a * very * old debate about what it takes to get into heaven / be right with God / be saved from sin : do you have to perform correct deeds , or is it enough to believe correct things?^1 From time to time some Christians would think that believing is a form of doing , and that a loving God would not damn any person eternally . Those views were suppressed until the protestant reformation made it possible for some scholars to teach them openly in some countries . And as they believed there was no reason to convert the infidels to save their souls , many also found inspiration in the commonalities between some of their traditions and those of other religions . From there it snowballed into a modern religion with no official doctrines , that is about a community dedicated to “ a free and responsible search for truth and meaning ” . As for myself I was raised Christian , became atheist / agnostic / it 's complicated , then adopted the teachings of Epicurus as a systematic philosophy of life , then since he emphasized having a community I found UU to be the one compatible with my beliefs /
It depends on the circumstance . Where you see perfectly straight lines , it was often a result of the land being partitioned between countries , often foreign colonizing powers . Two European powers may have come to an area , and they would make a treaty that said " OK , everything north of this line belongs to you , and everything south belongs to us . " When those countries became independent , they inherited those boundaries . You 'll see it a lot in western US states , as well , when the land was split up into territories even before settlers came into the area in any significant numbers . It 's a matter of bureaucrats drawing lines on a map to try to make territories that are of reasonable size for manageability . Sometimes , you might see lines that are n't straight , and do n't seem to follow any natural boundaries . This is very often a result of the populations that move there -- two distinctly different cultures ( and often languages ) and the boundaries were drawn around those groups to keep similarly cultured people in the same country ( German - speaking people on this side , French - speaking on the other side ) . In this case , the boundary moved around the people , instead of the other way around . And sometimes , an irregular boundary is just how things were when the most recent war
You know normal physics right ? In classic physics everything is linear . If you punch a tree with more force your hand will hurt more . Or ( a bit more scientifically ) you can put in any amount of energy and you will get a specific outcome . It was common sense that this Principe applied for everywhere . Except for it did n't . This is were quantum physics comes into play . You can use light to move electrons in an atom ( different story ) , but what they ( e.g. Einstein , which he got his Nobel Prize for ) found out is , that there are specific energies you have to put in to make this move happen . You need these EXACT amounts of energy , nothing more or less . And this ' being an exact amount ' is what you call quantized . That is why you call quantum physics quantum physics . It deals with the field in physics where things are quantized . Now why they want to make quantum computers . Photons have some funny abilities . You know Schrödinger 's cat ? Stuff like that . For example you can have two Photons which are entangled . It has something to do with data transfer . Entangled photons exchange information soooo fast . ( Scientists might have found out , that they to that with 10c , which is thought to be impossible . ) This
Think about it like decorating a cake . It 's a lot easier , when you 're making a cake that has lots of customization to start with a base cake . It 's the same thing with people . Men have nipples because , during pregnancy , it 's easier to make a " base " human . So for example , during development , all babies develop the beginnings of a vagina and penis . During later development when genitalia is specialized , your assigned sexual organ develops , but your opposite genitalia does n't disappear . ( For men , this vestigial organ is the vagina masculina , and women have a clitoris . ) So it 's the same with nipples . The nipples are created just in case the baby was female and , later the milk producing organs are created along with a female reproductive system due to greater exposure to estrogen rather than testosterone .
There are different ways that clouds can form , and if you see a uniform line of cloud bottoms , then the clouds that have formed are convective . Rapid heating of the earth 's surface causes air to raise , and after a certain altitude the water vapour in the air condenses into clouds . The bottoms of the clouds sit at the altitude that the vapour has condensed at - below that altitude , cloud wo n't actually form .
It 's moving because you paid attention . It has so many themes all going off throughout , it 's hard not to identify with at least two or three characters before the ending . Love , anger , betrayal , redemption , justice , persecution , fear , and hope on many levels exist at any given point in the story , which plays off experiences everyone has had at some point in time .
Because there is no air on the moon , a normal flag would simply drop against the pole . To avoid this , an other pole ran along the top of the flag allowing it to stay up . However when deploying the flag the two poles did not click into place properly leaving the flag at a slight angle and introducing a ripple into the cloth . NASA liked the look and kept this " feature " for future missions In addition , the pole was designed to be driven into the lunar dust , but a much harder layer was found a few inches below the dust so the flag had to be twisted into the ground , this setup an oscillating motion in the flag which lasted longer and was more pronounced due to being in a vacuum .
Alright , It all basically started when links started popping up around popular message boards linking to videos under the YouTube user " boxxybabee " . At first she was admired for her quirky and bubbly personality , coupled with the fact she was a " geek " ( " proved " by her statements pertaining to being a Gaia Online player and her Auqa Teen Hunger Force t - shirt ) . Her most popular videos at the time were " FOAR 4DD1 FRUM BOXXY " , " FOAR ANT FRUM BOXXY " , and shortly after the hype started , " FOAR EVERYWUN FRUM BOXXY " . Begin the hype train . Remixes , fan pages , reply videos , parodies , etc . Due to her mass popularity it was n't long before /b / tards claimed her the queen of /b/. Boxxy threads were very common . This continued and it was eventually established that the oldfags were very uninterested in this boxxybabee hype and deemed that the newfags were spreading the cancer known as Boxxy . /b/ was split down the middle and a 4chan civil war began . Photoshopped nudes and gore pics started circulating in retaliation to the numerous Boxxy threads that were becoming increasingly common . This event was quite notable as it is one of the only times the mods of /b/ expressed their opinion on the matter as typing the word " Boxxy " was met with a ban from
Some recovering drug addicts do drink alcohol without abusing it . Though , the statistics seem to say that most recovering addicts can not drink alcohol without also abusing it . Most recovery programs teach that if you are an addict to once substance , you have the increased likelihood to abuse other addictive substances . As such , their advice is to avoid those substances in general . The deal with nicotine ( smoking tobacco ) is this ... while it is definitely addictive , its effects are not socially destructive , as the effects of alcohol , or cocaine , or heroin ( or whatever ) . Nicotine definitely is hazardous to one 's health ( and even to others in the form of second - hand smoke ) , but its effects are mostly personal and take a relatively long time to show up . It is unlikely that no matter how many tobacco cigarettes one smokes , you are not going to be so intoxicated that while driving you will cause an accident resulting in the injury or deaths of other people .
If two objects in space are on the same ballistic trajectory , they must be moving at the same speed . If one is moving faster than the other it will move to a higher orbit . It 's not intuitive but in orbit , to go up you need to go forward , and to go down you need to go backward .
Two different things : Common batteries come in a multitude of 1.5 volt because a single cell of a alkaline battery provides 1.5 volts when full . This voltage does not change if the battery becomes bigger or smaller , that only changes the duration it can provide this 1.5 volt . The other , 3.3v , 5v and 12 volt ( and you are missing -12 volt ) are standardized voltage levels in electronics ( and thus computers ) and then specially transistors and all inherited technologies like digital chips : Digital chips ( IC 's , integrated circuits ) specially the TTL series have an " low " or 0 level at between 0.0 and 0.8 volts and a " high " or 1 level between 2 and 5 volts . So the maximum voltage you need there is 5 volts . Bingo , there is your 5 . -12 and +12 volt are ( where ? ) the voltages used for communications , but early logic used +12 because of noise / interference . You needed a huge difference between a 0 and a 1 . With the TTL logic later on this was n't needed so much anymore and you could go back to 5 volts . Now 3.3 volt : It 's part of making chips faster without melting . If you double the number of transistors on the same area and double the frequency , you will need four times the power consumption .
If I threw something at you and you did nt have a prefered hand your reflexes would likely be decreased because you d have to decide what hand to use . Having a prefered hand makes it more instinctual to grab , block , defend , decreasing reaction time . It is a case of ' more ' motor neurons in one arm over the other . So your prefered hand has better dexterity than offhand . I m what is called mixed handed . I do some things better with my left , and some better with my right . For example when I do ball tricks , I do them left footed , when I need a strong curve , left footed . But I can kick a straight shot better right footed . I pass better right footed . Whwn idribble doqn the field I can do left or right footed , but better left footed . I have a better outside leftfoot shot than outside right footed shot . I write right handed . As to why right hand is more prevelant , noone is exactly sure .
Belgian French speaker here ! In French speaking part : dubbed in French or subtitled in French . In Dutch speaking part : subtitled in Dutch , sometimes dubbed in Dutch . Bilingual part ( essentially Brussels , and that is where I live ) : dubbed in French , dubbed in Dutch when it exists , subtitled in both languages ( there are two lines of subtitles , one in French , the other in Dutch , so that native speakers of both languages can watch the same movie in the same room at the same time ) .
Hi,Thanks for writing in.Biting cheek itself is not a cause of cancer. However many times it is seen that a person bites unknowingly over an area that is probably a lump due to an evolving tumor. If you have a habit of biting your cheek from a long time then there in no concern.Getting a biopsy might help to give you peace of mind and confirm it to be a benign lesion. White patches in the cheeks might be observed for sometime but if you have decided to get a biopsy done then that is better for you. However, biting cheek does not cause cancer. Please do not worry.
Guided missiles are mostly self guided missiles . A lot of military equipment depends on radio signals . A tank , a jeep , a soldier with a radio pack , are mobile with small radio sets . The enemy can have a very powerful radio transmitter with a directed antenna . It can overpower small portable devices overwhelming the signals they want to receive . The Iranians claim they took over a US drone . They could have transmitted signals on the drones frequency disruptiing US control . Or they could have just shot it down and claimed that . Aircraft will carry countermeasures . aluminum chaff to confuse enemy radar , very hot packages to attract heat seeking missiles and anything else to confuse a missile targeted for them . Submarines will deploy beacons to confuse other craft . Aircraft will trick air to air missile systems to turn on their radars . Other aircraft will target the radars . The US army adopted FM transmission early when it was difficult to receive . Now they use frequency hopping to keep communication secret and the radio stations unlocatable . If a missile were actually being directed with a radio beam the enemy would definitely try to jam the signal . Most cruise missiles guide themselves and do not transmit radio signals .
Credit scores try to predict how likely you are to pay your dues , so in particular they watch out for any indication that you maybe in financial trouble . But they have no access to your bank account , or your employment status , so they have to rely on indirect inference . If you have multiple inquiries , that may indicate that you just signed up for a bunch of credit cards because you are suddenly in need of money . So temporarily your credit score is lowered .
It should be worth pointing out why this exists : It 's a protection of rights for the person involved . If they are truly not - guilty ( let 's just say for argument 's sake ) , and are found that , it saves them from a prosecutor that 's just out to take heads for whatever reason ( grudge against the person , popular opinion , etc ) instead of uphold truth and justice . More or less , it keeps prosecutors from hammering people with trials until they get a guilty verdict - which is something that has happened in the past and in the present in other regimes .
[ It is n't . ] ( URL_0 ) * " But " hot " water for hand washing is generally within 104 ° F to 131 ° F ( 40 ° C to 55 ° C . ) At the high end of that range , heat could kill some pathogens , but the sustained contact that would be required would scald the skin ... " * * Even water as cold as 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) appeared to reduce bacteria as well as hotter water , if hands were scrubbed , rinsed , and dried properly . *
[ From the Wikipedia article on Easter :] ( URL_0 ) The modern English term Easter , cognate with modern German Ostern , developed from the Old English word Ēastre or Ēostre . This is generally held to have originally referred to the name of an Anglo - Saxon goddess , Ēostre , a form of the widely attested Indo - European dawn goddess . In Greek and Latin , the Christian celebration was and is called Πάσχα , Pascha , words derived , through Aramaic , from the Hebrew term Pesach ( פֶּסַח ) , known in English as Passover , which originally denoted the Jewish festival commemorating the story of the Exodus . Already in the 50s of the 1st century , Paul , writing from Ephesus to the Christians in Corinth , applied the term to Christ , and it is unlikely that the Ephesian and Corinthian Christians were the first to hear Exodus 12 interpreted as speaking about the death of Jesus , not just about the Jewish Passover ritual . In most of the non - English speaking world , the feast is known by names derived from Greek and Latin Pascha .
No animal is truly hypoallergenic . It all depends on what exactly ( saliva , dander , fur ) has the most protein and how much the animal 's activities put those things into the air . This will determine how sensitive the allergic person is to the animal . Even so - called " hypoallergenic " breeds ( those who do n't shed or whatever criteria are used ) may elicit a serious reaction and other breeds or individual animals may not . This is why an allergic person even considering adopting or purchasing an animal should meet the individual animal first and observe reactions . My son is dog allergic but reacted horribly to a shih - tzu ( a " hypoallergenic " breed ) we were considering buying -- but reacted not at all to our rat terrier mix . Nothing is more important when looking at individual allergies than examining the individual animal .
This is just the natural evolution of language You can notice it in much shorter timescales . The way you speak is probably different to the way your grandparents speak . And equally , your own grandchildren will speak differently to you . Why does it happen ? Well , who wants to speak like their grandparents ? Fashions change , children start pronouncing things differently or using new words , and older generations stick with what they know .
Technology is not the problem , it already [ exists ] ( URL_0 ) . The problem is there 's little market demand for higher quality phone calls , the current standard is good enough for most people . Implementing higher quality voice cost phone carriers money in new equipment so they 're not going to implement it without some way of earning that money back . But if you clicked the link earlier you can see that carriers around the world are slowly rolling out the technology .
Partly a move to differentiate African Americans from white people , started to come about during the African American civil rights movement . Look at the names of African American musicians from the 50s to now as an example of the change over time . Here 's a link to an episode of the Freakonomics Radio podcast that discusses this as part of an episode on names . Really interesting . URL_0
Do n't start out with , " I 'm going to tell a joke " the timing will play a huge part and takes practice . Your audience has to be ready to receive your joke , then start it off as if it were a personal story . Instead of , " a guy walks into a bar " you start with , " on taco Tuesday I went over to the casa cervasa ... " just make it your own funny story , your audience will know its a joke once you get to the punch line .
If you're a non resident then you owe no capital gains tax to Canada. Most banks won't let you make trades if you're a non-resident. They may not have your correct address on file so they don't realize this. This is not tax law but just OSC (or equivalent) regulations. You do have to fill out paperwork for withholding tax on OAS/CPP payments. This is something you probably already do but here's a link . It's complicated and depends on the country you live in. Of course you may owe tax in Thailand, I don't know their laws.
If the billing cycle is 2 to 3 months, it would mean Banks have to give credit for a longer period and it makes the entire business less profitable as well as more risky compared to the Monthly billing cycle. For example the current monthly billing cycle with a date say of 14th, means if you swipe your card on 1st day, one would effectively get a credit for 30+14, around 44 days. If you swipe on last day, one would get a credit for 14 days. On an average 22 days of credit. If we make this 3 months, the credit period would increase on an average (90+14)/2, 52 days. From a risk point of view, on monthly cycle if there is non-payment its flagged much earlier compared to a 3 months cycle. On offering different dates, shop around. In the older times the cycles were different, however with individuals having several cards, and trying to optimize every purchase to maximize credit period. Quite a few banks have streamlined it to monthly cycle. Shop around and some banks should be able to offer you different dates.
I wouldn't call it apples and oranges. This is literally an opportunity cost calculation. You can safely assume S&P500 will perform at least 11% over any 10 year period. Since failing companies are delisted and replaced with new growing companies, the market should continue to grow. No, it's not guaranteed. Lets use an aggressive number for inflation, 4%, leaving a 7% ROR estimate for S&P500. I assume OP has better credit than me, assume a rate around 3.5%. So it looks like net 3.5% ROR. The PMI erases that. You have to continue paying it until you pay off the loan. Put 20% down, get a 15 year fixed at lowest rate. Pay it off quicker.
Not only carbohydrates , also amino acids and fats / fatty acids . Cells convert all these organic material via catabolic processes into acetyl - CoA which is converted in the citric acid cycle with the help of oxygen into oxidized carbon ( this is released into the blood system as carbon dioxide and exhaled ) and electrons ( as NADH / FADH2 ) .
Law of Attraction : Basically you get what you wish for . Law of attraction has more of a focus on " energy " , kind of similar to the way some would explain the way " karma " works . ( Not reddit Karma ) To expand on this with my opinion : I do n't really think that there is an energy that specifies whether your expectation will produce a certain result . In some cases , I think the " Law of Attraction " is more or less the effect of your effort into something . I do n't believe that because you thought you were going to see a flat tire on your vehicle in the morning , you would actually find a flat tire on your vehicle . BUT , If you are really driven enough to accomplish a goal , your outlook on the situation will be better , and the result would probably be a lot more like what you wished and dreamed for . What you want and shoot for is what you get . If you talk yourself out of it , or if you do not think you will succeed , you will drive your dreams away .
From TST 's FAQ page : > TST has its own guiding principles and tenets , distinct from the LaVeyan school , that we feel represents a natural evolution in Satanic thought . The overriding principle calls for utilizing the best scientific evidence available to make the most rational real world decisions . To that end , we reject LaVeyan social Darwinist rhetoric that fails to agree with what is currently known regarding social evolution , specifically as it relates to research in evolutionary biology , game theory , reciprocal altruism , cognitive science , etc . > > TST also strongly rejects the LaVeyan fetishization of authoritarianism . We believe this is antithetical to Satanic notions of individual sovereignty . Further , while LaVeyan Satanism is atheistic — in that it rejects the notion that Satan is a conscious entity — it is still supernaturalist . TST does not forward supernatural theories of the universe and finds little value in LaVeyan edicts such as those that instruct one to “ acknowledge the power of magic if you have employed it successfully to obtain your desires . If you deny the power of magic after having called upon it with success , you will lose all you have obtained . ” ( From the Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth , Anton LaVey )
As a New Yorker , I happened to be pretty interested in this situation . I did some legwork to figure out exactly why the Police are so mad . Let 's start from the beginning . * * These are the words he actually said * * [ in regards to the Eric Garner case ] ( URL_4 ): > " This is profoundly personal for me . I was at the White House the other > day , and the president of the United States turned to me , and he met > Dante a few months ago , and he said that Dante reminded him of what > he looked like as a teenager . And he said , I know you see this crisis > through a very personal lens . I said to him I did . Because Chirlane and > I have had to talk to Dante for years , about the dangers he may face . A > good young man , a law - abiding young man , who would never think to > do anything wrong , and yet , because of a history that still hangs over > us , the dangers he may face — we’ve had to literally train him , as > families have all over this city for decades , in how to take special care > in any encounter he has with the police officers who are there to > protect him . " That
Choosing a president is like a year - long race . If horses were racing , you would want to pick a horse you like , but only if it can win . If the horses start to race and you notice one is doing really well , you might change your mind about which one you like best . Primaries are spread out over many weeks and months . So it 's like a race where some people get to choose their favorite horse in the middle of the race .
Jackie Keith Whitley (July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon (2000). - Country Music: The Encyclopedia. - New York: St. Martin's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard (2003). - Country Music: A Biographical Dictionary. - New York: Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin (1995). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York: Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott (2003). - The Tombstone Tourist: Musicians. - New York: Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, Jack. - "Singer Keith Whitley's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in Home Town". - The Kentucky Post . - September 25, 1991.—"Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33". - Lexington Herald-Leader . - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - "Whitley's Last Days". - Chicago Tribune . - May 14, 1989.—"Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley". - United Press International . - (c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
I think it is stated perfectly in the question, "unforeseen critical needs." You know you will need to buy new tires for your car, they are critical but not unforeseen. However, if a tree falls on your car and you need to pay the insurance deductible for the repairs it would be unforeseen. You should budget for the expenses you can plan for in advance like car maintenance and repairs. An emergency fund is for items that are out of the ordinary.
Bacon is basically a cured pork , like ham . The meat to fat ratio of cured pork belly lends itself to frying into the bacon we know and love . Because pig and cow are very different animals ( despite having the same muscle groups ) , the meat tastes , cooks and [ cures ] ( URL_0 ) differently . A Beef " ham " is [ corned beef ] ( URL_1 ) . Delicious in its own way , fried with potatoes makes an excellent breakfast .
It takes resources to accomplish anything when making a game . Any addition is going to cost time and money . For many developers , it is n't worth it to spend much time specifically on facial animations when they are so hard to perfect and will not get very much attention payed to them . Nobody is going to give you a better rating for facial animations , they just need to be acceptable . If you dedicate the money you would have spent to perhaps a more detailed lighting engine or better overall models , you can get better ratings and sell more copies .
A ground is used for safety . Let 's say you have a dryer with a metal exterior . A dryer takes a lot of power , and so there is a lot of electricity flowing through the wires . But it can happen that one of the wires comes loose , or loses some of its shielding . If it then touches the metal case , and you touch the metal case as well , Bat Stuff can happen . But by hooking the case up to the ground , the electricity is diverted to the Earth via that wire . And since stuff in nature tends to prefer the path of least resistance , you wo n't get shocked when you touch the case . You have a higher resistance than the wire .
On top of the other great explanations here , please keep in mind of the market size for an education in the united states . Here in the US we have the some of the best universities on earth in many different fields . Not only does the US educate its own population , it educates a global population that is more than willing to pay to obtain a degree . There is demand internationally all over the world to attend colleges here , but only a limited number of enrolled seats in the US at universities . The willingness to pay for someone outside the US for a US - based education can definitely drive the cost exponentially higher . Cash is king , and that 's part of why your scholarships ca n't keep up . If the university raises the price , someone out there in the world is still willing to cover it . TL;DR the demand is international , not just domestic . Supply of enrollment seats stays constant . This is not by any means the only explanation , but a significant factor .
It reduces the perceived cost more than the actual cost , as not everybody will send in the rebate . If you have a $ 10 item with a $ 10 rebate , people will think " Free stuff ! " , but then 50 % will forget to send the rebate in , so it effectively sold for $ 5 . Also , to mail in your rebate , you have to give them your name , address , and sometimes other info as well . This is valuable to the company .
Here's another attempt at explanation: it's basically because parabolas are flat at the bottom. Let me explain. As you might know, the variance of the log stock price in Black Scholes is vol^2 * T, in other words, variance of the log stock price is linear in time to expiry. Now, that means that the standard deviation of your log stock price is square root in time. This is consequential. For normally distributed random variables, in 68% of cases we end up within one standard deviation. So, basically, we expect our log stock price to be within something something times square root of T. So, if your stock has a vol of 16%, it'll be plus/minus 32% in 4 years, plus/minus 16% for one year, plus/minus 8% for 3m, plus/minus 4% for 3-ish weeks, and plus/minus 1% for a business day. As you see, the decay is slow at first, but much more rapid as we get closer. How does the square root function look? It's a sideways parabola. As we come closer to zero, the slope of the square root function goes to infinity. (That is related to the fact that Brownian motion is almost surely no-where differentiable - it just shoots off with infinite slope, returning immediately, of course :-) Another way of looking at it is the old traders rule of thumb that an at-the-money option is worth approximately S * 0.4 * vol * sqrt(T). (Just do a Taylor expansion of Black Scholes). Again, you have
No, this is not solid advice. It's a prediction with very little factual basis, since US interest rates are kept just as low and debt levels are just as high as in the Eurozone. The USD may rise or fall against the EUR, stay the same or move back and forth. Nobody can say with any certainty. However, it is not nearly as risky as "normal forex speculation", since that is usually very short term and highly leveraged. You're unlikely to lose more than 20-30% of your capital by just buying and holding USD. Of course, the potential gains are also limited.
Machine learning ( ML ) is more of a subset of artificial intelligence ( AI ) , like how eagles are a subspecies of birds . I do n't think it 's meaningful to compare the differences between them when they are subsets of each other , so I 'll just explain their relationship instead : Machine learning is applied to AI , but not all AI uses machine learning . AI involves decision making based on algorithms and heuristics . Conventionally , without the use of machine learning , those algorithms are pre - programmed by a human being and dictates the action the AI will take , no matter how stupid the action turns out to be . This means that AI without machine learning is only as " smart " as the programmer programmed it to be , so if the algorithm the AI follows is flawed or sub - optimal ( which is the fault of the programmer ) , the AI will always make that bad choice . This is where AI with machine learning comes in . Without going too much into the technical details , the AI is programmed with an objective in mind and is tasked to achieve it , but is not told how to achieve it . It hence performs different actions determined at random , each time figuring out what helps it get closer to its objective and what hinders it . From there it literally " learns "
It 's important that remember that the big bang was not an explosion * in * space , but rather an expansion * * of * * space . As such , there is no single point where the big bang occurred . Rather , it occurred everywhere in the entire universe at the same time . The universe was n't concentrated into a single point . It was just much denser than it is currently .
The Second Law of Thermodynamics . Internal combustion engines are heat engines . The greater the heat differential , the greater the power they produce . The efficiency of burning fuel and getting useful energy out of it is limited by physics , and engines have between a 32 - 40 % efficiency in doing this . How many MPG ( miles per gallon ) a car gets is a combination of engine , transmission , and overall vehicle weight relative to the size of the engine , as well as the size of the engine itself in terms of power and torque .
First , stars are really , really far away . So from our perspective it looks like they 're in the same place every night ... But that 's not true . Over thousands of years , stars * do * change position even from our perspective . They have in the past and will in the future . It 's just that these time scales are * vastly * longer than our lifespans .
As user14469 mentions you would have to decide what type of properties you would like to invest in. Are you after negatively geared properties that may have higher long term growth potential (usually within 15 to 20km from major cities), or after positive cash-flow properties which may have a lower long term growth potential (usually located more than 20km from major cities). With negative geared properties your rent from the property will not cover the mortgage and other costs, so you will have to supplement it through your income. The theory is that you can claim a tax deduction on your employment income from the negative gearing (benefits mainly those on higher tax brackets), and the potential long term growth of the property will make up for the negative gearing over the long term. If you are after these type of properties Michael Yardney has some books on the subject. On the other hand, positive cash-flow properties provide enough rental income to cover the mortgage and other costs. They put cash into your pockets each week. They don't have as much growth potential as more inner city properties, but if you stick to the outer regions of major cities, instead of rural towns, you will still achieve decent long term growth. If you are after these type of properties Margaret Lomas has some books on the subject. My preference is for cash-flow positive properties, and some of the areas user14469 has mentioned. I am personally invested in the Penrith and
Critical thinking is the ability to assess information and determine what is likely to be true and what is likely be false . It is mostly about logic , but also includes statistics and probability , as well as understanding the limitations of human perception , memory , and intuition and the impact of bias . A good general understanding of the subject matter also helps . For example , a poor critical thinker might say something like " It was cold last winter , therefore the climate is n't getting warmer . " A good critical thinker understands that : * one winter in one location is not statistically significant * the perception of a " cold winter " is subjective and may not be accurate * with most climate models , some places are expected to get colder even as the earth 's average temperature increases Note this has nothing to do with whether climate change is real . It is about properly interpreting information .
Safe and clean are two different things . The cleanest water would be pure , de - ionized water , which would leach so much from the system and your plumbing it would be quite harmful Water is treated by various processes , depending on its source , to produce a clean and safe product at the plant , free from as much foreign material and harmful compounds as possible with available technology . From this point it is disinfected , by various means . Each type of process has its good points and bad . The pipes of the system are designed to be a certain size , to handle the flow , without causing either stagnation from being oversized , or scouring by being undersized . This somewhat " sweeps " and flushes them constantly . In areas where deposits collect , which they do , operators will often perform flushing of hydrants to effectually clean the mains . All while this is happening , a residual of disinfectant is maintained in the system to prevent unwanted pathogen growth ( not sterilization ! but disinfection ) . Disinfection is not sterilization . The purpose to disinfection is to kill or inactivate harmful pathogens . Sterilization kills everything . Water providers are required to pull many many samples from the plant and system each year , to test for a wide range of constitutes , such as metals , bacteriological presence , disinfectant levels , etc . When a
It is because your eye actually has two types of light detectors , called rods and cones . Rods are really good at detecting light , but they can not see color very well . However , cones are very good at detecting colors , but they are not as sensitive to small amounts of light . What is cool is that cones are really only located in the center of your eye , and you have rods everywhere else . When you look away from a star , the star is no longer seen by your color - seeing cones , but instead it is detected by your light detecting rods . What is really cool about this is it means that aside from the very center of our vision , we barely see any color !
Some builders -- if given the first chance to deal with the problem, instead of being presented with a bill after the fact -- will fix the problem at no charge to the homeowner. Good faith matters. My house was built by such a builder. If I have a problem that I am competent enough to diagnose and fix, I fix it myself, at my cost. If I have a problem that that I cannot diagnose and fix myself, but that I think the builder (or his subcontractor) is competent enough to diagnose and/or fix, I contact the builder (or subcontractor directly). I am willing to pay for the diagnosis and/or fix, especially if it is an aging or wear-and-tear issue, or the logical consequence of a cost-saving measure that I voluntarily chose when the house was being designed. If the problem is a plumbing problem, I contact my preferred plumber for a diagnosis and/or repair. I pay for my preferred plumber's work. On two occasions, my preferred plumber was unable to fix the problem. Both problems turned out to be installation (or testing) errors related to work done specifically for building inspections. In both cases, I paid for my preferred plumber's diagnosis, and the builder (and/or his subcontractor) fixed the problem at no additional cost to me. The diagnosis and repair work that you describe seems like a similar situation to me. (In fact, I had my builder's subcontractor replace a few prematurely damaged shingles on my roof. This
As other comments say , it ca n't . However , it can create pseudo - random numbers , which is basically a sequence of numbers generated from a seed number ( you may have heard of it in creating random maps in Age of Empires , etc . ) Having a seed is nice because it helps you reproduce a sequence ; you and your friend can both fire up AoE 2 map editor and put the same seed number in it , and get the same map . So basically the pseudo - random number generator ( PRNG ) is a function that takes a number and outputs a sequence . But here 's the nice part : For all practical intents and purposes , you can not distinguish a good PRNG from a true RNG . A possible definition for this is that if you are given the first n numbers of a PRNG sequence , you do n't gain a significant advantage in guessing the ( n+1)th number . Say that the PRNG generates 0 's and 1 's , and I 've given you that the first 8 bits are 00101010 . If the probability that you can guess the next bit correctly is not significantly larger than 50 % ( probability you will guess the bit correctly if the sequence was truly random ) , you 're good to go . So again , for all practical intents and purposes ( including , surprisingly
Hi there,Only if your platelet count is less than 20000/cmm you will need treatment in the form of steroids. Otherwise there is no need to treat thrombocytopenia. If APLA is incidentally detected, no treatment is need for that.You are at higher risk of developing clots in blood vessels. Hence in high risk situations you will need thromboprophylaxis.Please consult a rheumatologist, and get tested for autoimmune conditions such as SLE. You may need a treatment, if found positive.With regards,Dr. Girish Kamat
A few pretty good answers so far , but trying to answer this briefly and with ELI5 ( ELI7 ) in mind 1 ) a microprocessor is a basic computing unit that does things like addition , subtraction , condition evaluation ( e.g. is the result of the last subtraction equal to zero ) , reading inputs ( eg keyboard button presses ) , and writing to outputs ( eg pixels on a screen ) etc 2 ) it works by using combinations of simple logical operations like and , or , xor , and reading / writing inputs and outputs ( URL_0 ) 3 ) originally , microprocessors were used to perform very simple computations more quickly than humans could . They have been ever evolving over the past several decades for more and more advanced problem solving . For example , microprocessors have been used to drive calculators so people did n't have to do calculations by hand , but the same operations ( like addition , subtraction , reading and responding to keyboard inputs ) combined in innovative ways could also run simple games like pong . Then , taking it a step further , you could do things like determine what a person is typing and create a basic command line / user prompt application
200 Students in a class . Smart students who finish their work get to go to lunchtime , where there are donuts and toys . Normally , students finish one at a time , smartest first then not - so - smart , over the course of the day . If every student now has a private tutor that helps them , they all finish much much quicker , and everybody gets to go to lunch for donuts and toys much sooner . For a water particle to turn into gas water , it needs energy . Heat is a type of energy . Energy is n't split evenly among the water , like how smart students are , so some get enough energy to evaporate and leave , while others do n't get to leave so soon . Lots and lots of energy , then the majority now has enough energy and everybody gets to leave . I want a donut .
If you actually want to know * as much as possible * about derivatives , you 're in the wrong place . But I 'll explain the concept LY5 . ( and let someone else do the math part if they want . ) A derivative tells you how fast something is changing . It 's a number telling you a * rate of change * . Let 's say we 're driving down the road in a car . At 5 o'clock we are at mile marker 10 , and at 5:01 we are at mile marker 11 . Our position on the road was 10 at time 5:00 , and it was 11 at time 5:01 . So how much did our position change ? It changed by one mile in one minute . So , we were moving at 60 miles per hour . That 's why we say that velocity ( or speed in a car ) is the * derivative * of position . If you took a graph with position on the y - axis and velocity on the x - axis , you would see that , at time 5:00 , we were at position 10 , and at time 5:01 ( one unit to the right ) , we were at position 11 ( one unit upward ) . So if we drew a line from the first point to the second , it would look like this : 12 | |
The reasons are twofold . First , some people would like a small government that does n't waste too much money . Public education costs money , so closing it is seen as a way to save money in the short term . Second , there 's currently a culture of ignorance in the United States . The educated " elite " is seen as detached from " real people " and considered with suspicion . Some people do n't agree when this " elite " decides what children are taught . For example there 's this distrust for science because of its conflict with ideas that found their way in American culture : the earth is less than 10,000 years old , evolution is false , global warming is a myth ... People who hold these positions do n't like it when public education teaches their children otherwise .
We eat foods with miniscule amounts of bacteria on them every day . It 's only because they 're symbiotic with our digestive systems that they manage to procreate and hang around . The immune system does n't kill them because those people whose immune systems killed their symbiotic bacteria never made it to reproductive age . They are a major part of our digestive system .
Lots of people go Christmas shopping . Lots of people have the day after Thanksgiving off of work . The day after Thanksgiving is close enough to Christmas that people are thinking about gift buying . Having big sales on the day after Thanksgiving to get people doing their Christmas shopping is a great way to get people to come to your store . The added benefit is that , being just one day , when people go home & tell their friends about all the great deals they got , people will remember their friends talking about the deals & be more likely to come to your store and buy things at regular price later .
Deliberate protectionism . Europeans looked at each other , and looked the US and said ' I 'm going my own way to be sure those other people do n't get all of the business ' . It used to be much harder to make large quantities of equipment for different electrical standards ( voltage and frequency ) , so the hope was that by protecting your own little electricity fiefdom you 'd be different . The British Empire other than Canada went 50Hz 220V , and now the Caribbean islands are kicking themselves because most of their customers are american and want 60Hz 110V. Then history happened and they all looked kind of stupid for intentionally choosing completely different technology . Japan moreso than everyone else , because they are a big rich country * and * they have 2 different electrical standards . There are still people alive in North America who lived through the transition from 25Hz power - which is what Niagra Falls produces . AFAIK they only supply 25Hz power to a steel company in hamilton now . But about 75 years ago they rolled through and replaced 25Hz devices power with 60Hz .
It 's really important to remember that just because a majority wants / approves of something , it does n't mean it should be legal / illegal . The law , like morality , does not sway to popular opinion . It can be changed when shown to be wrong , but that just means it was always wrong -- not that it * became * wrong . So , the amount of Americans who approve of marijuana legalization does n't matter . 1 % could approve , and it should still be legal .
> Is this a bad thing to say to a cop ? No ; it 's one of the few things one ought to say to a cop , ever . Others include : I do not consent to any searches . I am invoking my fifth amendment right to remain silent . I would like to speak to my attorney .
It 's probably just the best way to handle constructing it . It 's much more easier and practical to construct it on dry land and slide it in ( or dump it ) than to construct a pen and pump the water out ( not to mention the safety issues of holding back a wall of water ) . Besides , with the storms out there , if a ship like that ca n't handle being dumped into the water , it is n't too sea - worthy in general . So you could probably think of them doing that as a test of the ship , too .
Fossils do n't get buried everywhere ! If a plant or animal dies in a river valley or along a shoreline , it can eventually be buried by dirt that gets washed downhill from nearby hills and mountains . The mountains gradually erode away as a result , but new ones are formed over time by volcanic eruption or collisions between moving continents . Animals that die on top of a hill , though , wo n't get buried so easily , and their fossils probably wo n't be preserved . As you can imagine , this means that we know more about animals that lived in valleys and shorelines than the ones that lived on hilltops .
There are many variables to this answer. One is, how close are you to the average salary range in the industry you are working in. If you are making more than average it would make sense that you are not getting a big raise from the employer's perspective. You have to be a top performer if you are looking for the top salary range. Big raises come from promotions or new jobs, generally speaking. The short and personal answer is, I worked at a big company (bank) and now know that companies do not give large raises to people as a rule. Honestly the only way to make good $ is to leave, all employers have all kinds of excuses as to why they are not giving you significant raises. Large raises and bonuses are reserved for "management". The bigger the company, the less likely it is that they will give you raises just because, esp. above 3-5%. At the same time, the market sets the rate, and if you are not getting passively recruited, it may mean that you need to work on getting a broader skill set if you are looking to make more $ somewhere else. The bottom line is, you have to think of yourself as a free agent at all times. You also need to make yourself more attractive as a potential hire elsewhere.
A house is a traditional style house . It can be anything from [ this ] ( URL_0 ) to one of [ these ] ( URL_2 ) . A flat is when you only own and live in * part * of a building . For example , the first house shown could be split into 4 or 5 flats , with seperate doors etc ... Or it could be one flat in a [ block of flats ] ( URL_1 ) . I would take a guess that it is the equivalent of an apartment to you Americans .
They 're not actually horns , they 're [ ossicones ] ( URL_1 ) , which are made of cartilage that slowly turns into bone over time , and is covered in skin and hair . The simplest answer to your question is that the giraffe 's [ ancestors ] ( URL_0 ) ( deer - like ruminants who ate shrubbery ) used them for sexual attractiveness , defense , and/or dominance displays . Giraffes no longer needed them for that purpose , but as the horns were n't hurting its ability to get to mating age and have babies , they have remained in some form .
Computers only know about numbers . Everything they do has to be converted to numbers somewhere , whether it 's the numbers on your tax forms , a picture of a cat or the text of the novel you are working on . At the lowest level , it 's all numbers . ASCII is a standard system of mapping the numbers in a computer 's memory to text . The computer does n't know that " fish " is a word , it 's just 4 bytes of memory that , at some point , a program manipulates or displays as text . It is n't any different from " uebg " , " xt38 " or " + ( @b " - they 're just text characters . The ASCII character " 7 " has no solid relationship to the numeric value 7 , it 's just a ( mostly ) meaningless symbol . Numbers for calculations are stored inside the computer 's memory in a completely different method than ASCII , one that 's far more efficient . 4 bytes of memory can only hold the numbers 0000 - 9999 if you 're handling characters but those same 4 bytes can hold numbers into the millions if they 're being stored as numbers .
The small tail end keeps going indefinitely , thus the surface area keeps going ( since the surface area is calculated by multiplying by the length , which is an infinite number . ) . Before we talk about volume , remember that 0.999999999999 ..... = 1 . 99.9999 % of the volume is at the larger end of the cone and it decreases as it gets towards the end , so even though the surface area keeps going , the volume will not increase enough to round it up to a number that matters . [ Here 's a good visual representitive ] ( URL_0 ) . Does n't matter how long it can go on , the digits towards the end will not make it round up to 1 .
NSCC illiquid charges are charges that apply to the trading of low-priced over-the counter (OTC) securities with low volumes. Open net buy quantity represents the total unsettled share amount per stock at any given time during a 3-day settlement cycle. Open net buy quantity must be less than 5,000,000 shares per stock for your entire firm Basically, you can't hold a long position of more than 5 million shares in an illiquid OTC stock without facing a fee. You'll still be assessed this fee if you accumulate a long position of this size by breaking your purchase up into multiple transactions. Open net sell quantity represents the total unsettled share amount per stock at any given time during a 3-day settlement cycle. Open net sell quantity must be less than 10% percent of the 20-day average volume If you attempt to sell a number of shares greater than 10% of the stock's average volume over the last 20 days, you'll also be assessed a fee. The first link I included above is just an example, but it makes the important point: you may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account doesn't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the clearing firm, not the individual client. This means that if other investors with your broker, or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm, purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at
For the most part , the entrenched telco monopolies have mostly let Google do it 's thing , because they do n't view its limited activities as a real large scale threat to their business model . If Google were to massively ramp up its deployment and pose a real threat to their bottom line , the big players like Comcast / Time Warner / etc . would likely go on a big offensive in terms of leveraging lawyers and politics to delay Google as much as possible . Even if Google felt that they could ultimate win most of those fights , it 'd be a long , arduous , and expensive process . Google probably just does n't feel like getting involved in that sort of mess .
When displaying a screen in a movie or TV show , the director has a few goals : A ) Do n't piss off the advertisers . If the TV show might run ads for Apple products , or have Apple product placement elsewhere , it 'd be a pretty bad idea to put a Windows OP on screen for free . B ) Communicate information to the audience in such a way that even tech illiterate grandma can understand it . You see how big and bright the font is on those fake OS 's , that 's so grandma can read it and keep up with the plot . C ) Do n't distract the audience by having extra stuff on screen . If the supervillains base has a bunch of monitors on the wall , they should show something that looks cool but does n't attract the eye of the viewer . Having nothing that the viewers recognize on the screens helps . It 's also worth noting that most of those screens are just blank / green during filming , with editors coming in afterwards and adding a screen in digitally .
When you say , " Fuck you , " to someone , you 're essentially dismissing them entirely . You 're telling them that they 're not worth anything to you anymore - not your time , not your energy , nothing . There are n't many other phrases that can really convey how little you care about someone as well as " Fuck you " can , but I 'd say " Go to Hell " is a close parallel . These phrases both imply that you 'd prefer for that person to simply disappear off the face of the earth than put up with them for one more second . But that 's at the extreme end of the spectrum ( for example , if you 're saying it out of anger ) - depending on your relationship with the person you 're saying it to , it can also be used more lightly without offending anyone . Why the phrase " fuck you , " specifically , does the best job of conveying your utter contempt for another person , I do n't think anyone knows 100 % for sure . It 's definitely got something to do with the way it feels to skillfully pronounce the word " fuck " though - it feels really good to do that when you 're pissed off .
First, don't save anything in a tax sheltered vehicle. You will be paying so little tax that there will be essentially no benefit to making the contributions, and you'll pay tax when they come out. Tax free compounding for 40 years is terrific, but start that after you're earning more than a stipend. Second, most people recommend having a month's expenses readily available for emergencies. For you, that would be $1500. If you put $100 a month aside, it will take over a year to have your emergency fund. It's easy to argue that you should pick a higher pace, so as to have your emergency money in place sooner. However, the "emergencies" usually cited are things like home repair, car repair, needing to replace your car, and so on. Since you are renting your home and don't have a car, these emergencies aren't going to happen to you. Ask yourself, if your home was destroyed, and you had to replace all your clothes and possessions (including furniture), how much would you need? (Keep in mind any insurance you have.) The only emergency expense I can't guess about is health costs, because I live in Canada. I would be tempted to tell you to get a credit card with a $2000 limit and consider that your emergency fund, just because grad student living is so tight to the bone (been there, and 25 years ago I had $1200 a month, so it must be harder for you now.) If you
Simulated annealing (SA) is a probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function. Specifically, it is a metaheuristic to approximate global optimization in a large search space for an optimization problem. It is often used when the search space is discrete (for example the traveling salesman problem, the boolean satisfiability problem, protein structure prediction, and job-shop scheduling). For problems where finding an approximate global optimum is more important than finding a precise local optimum in a fixed amount of time, simulated annealing may be preferable to exact algorithms such as gradient descent or branch and bound. The name of the algorithm comes from annealing in metallurgy, a technique involving heating and controlled cooling of a material to alter its physical properties. Both are attributes of the material that depend on their thermodynamic free energy. Heating and cooling the material affects both the temperature and the thermodynamic free energy or Gibbs energy. Simulated annealing can be used for very hard computational optimization problems where exact algorithms fail; even though it usually achieves an approximate solution to the global minimum, it could be enough for many practical problems. The problems solved by SA are currently formulated by an objective function of many variables, subject to several constraints. In practice, the constraint can be penalized as part of the objective function. Similar techniques have been independently introduced on several occasions, including Pincus (1970), Khachaturyan et al (1979, 1981), Kirkpatrick, Gelatt and Vecchi (1983), and Cerny (1985). In 1983, this approach
Fingerprint patterns are formed by random factors during fetal development . While genetics might influence some of the pattern , we know it is n't entirely genetic because even identical twins with identical DNA will have different fingerprints . The total number of all possible fingerprint patterns is about 64 billion , so it is possible that two people could share identical prints to the precision we could compare them . However , if you are talking about electronic scanners , then the probability of two people sharing " identical " prints is much lower . This has more to do with the resolution of the scanner and the matching algorithms used than the similarity of the prints . When you register a fingerprint on an electronic scanner , you have to press or swipe several times . The several images are combined and stored as a numerical hash , not an actual image . When you go to use your fingerprint for authentication , you only press or swipe once . The system converts that image to another hash , and an algorithm compares the hash from the latest scan to all the registered prints in the database . It 's not a true image comparison , it 's a mathematical one . If the system finds a match within its margin of error , it will authenticate . Depending on the resolution of the scanner and the accuracy of the algorithm , the number of possible false positives
The main evidence for global warming is simply that the average temperatures across the globe have been rising for decades . If you want to also include the evidence that humans are responsible and this is n't a natural cycle , the levels of CO2 in the air have skyrocketed to levels not seen in millions of years on Earth , this increase started around the time of the industrial revolution when fossil fuels started to be burned by humans , and the " accounting " that scientists have done to compare CO2 output from both human and natural factors seem to weigh heavily on the human factors . As for evidence against it , there really is n't any . You 'll hear some evidence cited by climate deniers , but as far as I know there is n't any evidence that does n't have a peer - reviewed and published explanation for why it 's either expected given the warming climate models , even if it 's counter - intuitive , or why it 's an erroneous interpretation of the data . edit : I should add that you 'll also hear people saying that there are climate scientists who have been caught fudging data to make their results look more alarming . This is true , but just because there 's some dishonest scientists working in the field does n't mean the entirety of climate science is a hoax or wrong .
I 'll expand on the other answers and note that usually the companies that offer free shipping are doing it on relatively high margin items with relatively low shipping costs ( upscale clothes , DVDs , to a lesser extent books ) . They believe that offering free shipping will make you order enough extra things that are profitable to them to make up for the shipping costs .
They used to think it was all due to the mother 's eggs being faulty . But they 've subsequently found that it 's often due to faulty sperm of older fathers , since older mothers generally are having babies with men of a similar or older age . Sperm is constantly being made , so it 's copies of copies of copies . The more copies , the more errors can creep in .
No , Jealousy in the classic sense is far different than Envy . Envy is simply looking at something and wishing not only did you have it , but the person possessing it did not . Jealousy often consists of a combination of emotions such as anger , resentment , inadequacy , helplessness and disgust . Envy is simply the objective want of something . Being jealous involves fear and anxiety over not having . Although Envy in the series is much more similar to Jealousy , it still fits the definition of Envy for most of the show . And Envy is the deadly sin , not jealousy , and each one of Father 's creations is named after a cardinal / deadly sin . Greed , Gluttony , Wrath , Lust , Sloth , Envy and Pride . It would be like replacing them with Indulgence , Hunger , Anger , Horniness , Laziness , Jealousy and Ego . While we all associate the former with the latter , they have different definitions , and do n't hold the same kind of pantheon that the 7 Deadly Sins do .
May 1 is [ International Workers Day ] ( URL_0 ) , and as can be plainly seen , lots of workers are very unhappy with the current situation . Income disparity now is more comparable to that during the late 19th and early 20th century than most of the 20th century ( at least in the US ) , union membership is on the decline , there was a recent massive recession , and there 's been a great deal of political conflict over labor . Lots of workers are * pissed * . As a result , they take to the streets and let their feelings be known . No one will achieve the change they want without acting .
negotiability is a legal concept that permits free transfer of a security without the requirement of prior consent of the issuer. that means the issuer must pay the current holder of the security, irrespective of who he is. negotiability also protects a good faith buyer of the instrument from adverse ownership claims of purported prior holders of the instrument. it is not related to "negotiating" the price or whatnot. A negotiable security means the current owner does not have to be concerned about acquiring the asset via a bad chain of title b/c he can always assert that he is a "holder in due course" defense against such claims, and have absolute security in his ownership right over the asset. securities and derivatives are different. securities are transferrable instruments representing a direct claim on the issuer for the value of the security, whether debt or equity ownership. derivatives are bilateral contracts, which can only be entered into with the consent of both parties, and can only be transferred by such consent. derivatives represent a claim against the parties of to the derivative that depends on some economic reference which is outside of the financial condition of the two parties to the contract, such as interest rates, FX rates, commodity prices, etc.
People are telling you the answer ... slicing v. chopping , shear force and pressure over area ... but not really describing the difference . A human neck for example does n't have a super tough skin , but there are tougher bits relative to other bits . And the bits are often discrete , meaning if you succeed in cutting one bit , you can chalk it up as job done and move onto the next bit , one at a time . Imagine you are cutting a tomato . The skin of the fruit is somewhat harder for a knife blade to get through compared to the ' guts ' . Now if you take your knife and press * * down * * your blade will compress the soft ' guts ' and you will increase the length of blade that encounters the skin . Its like your blade is staying as sharp ( or dull ) while the skin is getting tougher ! But what if you take your knife and , like the famous guillotine blade , angle it to the direction of force / resistance ? You drastically lessen the amount of blade that can come into contact with the skin if it compresses . Its , not perfect of course , but it does the best job of keeping more of the force directed on singular points . Why are n't * all * blades like this ? Well they often are ,
[ This article ] ( URL_0 ) might help with some of the history for the tobacco side . As far as alcohol , advertising is restricted . ( when it 's allowed to be showed and you never see anyone actually drink anything . ) Alcohol is n't regulated the same way and that has a lot to do with the large amount of backlash from prohibition .
The experiment is based on the idea of observation . Essentially since you can not see the cat , you do not know whether it is dead or alive . The theory is that the cat exists in a superposition of being both dead and alive , and is only forced into one position once it is observed . Practically this is hard to wrap our heads around because from our perception , there is no way the cat can be both dead and alive . It must be one or another
Winds at different altitudes are going in different directions . Let 's say the winds at 500 - 700 ft are SW - NE but from 700 - 900 they are W - E. You can adjust how far North and how far East you eventually get by varying your altitude between the two currents of winds . You 're not likely to find completely opposing wind currents though , so it 's not like you can navigate very sharply . All in all , you are * mostly * at the whim of the winds , but with some level of rudimentary control .
Your body is only really capable of producing a few substances , in different quantities ... so things like mucus , wax , sweat , semen , saliva , or milk tend to be made up of varying concentrations of salts , sugars , proteins , antibodies , other cells , and water . Now , * mucus * is produced by special cells in your body ( not any one gland ) . It is mainly a mixture of water and glycoproteins ( which are proteins that make the mucus viscous ) . These mixtures also have salts that make it unfavorable for bacteria / fungi to grow , enzymes designed to eat away at viruses / bacteria / fungi , antibodies , and some other immune - related proteins . So mucus is basically a sticky solution created by cells as a part of the immune system to protect you from bacteria and viruses and coats sensitive areas of the body , like the throat , nose , lungs , vagina , etc , etc . Naturally , the respiratory system ( mouth , nose , throat , and lungs ) need a lot of mucus because it has to deal with the most outside invaders ... all the bacteria and fungi that you inhale . When the cells in your body realize that you 've gotten sick , they produce more mucus to expel the invaders of your body ... you end up coughing up lung mucus
None whatsoever . Most schools will call themselves a college if they 're one - purpose ( so , a liberal arts - only school will call themselves Schoolname College ) while universities typically contain multiple programs . For instance , the uni I attended was formed when a bunch of colleges ( a music school , an engineering school , and a liberal arts school ) came together to form one unified school . However , a single - purpose school can call itself a university , if it wants to , and a multi - purpose school can continue to call itself a college . They can all give out the same types of degrees , all require the same level of prior education , etc .
I linked my bank account (by making a transfer from bank account to Paypal) without linking a card. This should not give Paypal any rights to do anything with my bank account - transfer that I made to link it was exactly the same as any other outgoing transfer from my bank account. On attempting to pay more that resides in my Paypal balance I get To pay for this purchase right now, link a debit or credit card to your PayPal account. message. Paypal is not mentioning it but one may also transfer money to Paypal account form bank to solve this problem. Note, that one may give allow Paypal to access bank account - maybe linking a card will allow this? Paypal encourages linking card but without any description of consequences so I never checked this. It is also possible that Paypal gained access to your bank balance in other way - for example in Poland it just asked for logins and passwords to bank accounts (yes, using "Add money instantly using Trustly" in Poland really requires sharing full login credentials to bank account - what among other things breaks typical bank contract) source for "Paypal attempts phishing": https://niebezpiecznik.pl/post/uwaga-uzytkownicy-paypala-nie-korzystajcie-z-najnowszej-funkcji-tego-serwisu/
The two main reasons are because of perceived motivation and effect . There are many people who feel that voter ID laws are actually designed to lower turnout within minority groups , who are less likely to have such identification . They point to a near complete lack of charges of voter fraud , and say that voter ID must actually be aimed at voter suppression . The most serious challenges to Voter ID laws involves the 24th Amendment , which abolished poll taxes . If someone has to purchase an ID in order to vote , it likely wo n't stand up in court . Some states with voter ID laws send free voter ID cards to every registered voter ; these laws are likely compliant with the 24th .
This an oversimplification that I 'm sure could be vastly improved but here it goes : If you were slicing a pie . Cutting more and more slices would n't increase the size of the pie . It would just decrease the size of the slices . Likewise Making more dollars does n't increase the amount of value in the system . It just makes the value of each dollar a little bit less . Hopefully that makes sense .
there is nothing quick about it , this economy has been producing about 140,000 new jobs every month this year . Bovernment employment has been going down steadily for the last few years and is one of the reasons for weak job growth overall . According the the BLS the jobs are primarily in the service sector , meaning retail sales and things like that so they are not even the result of government projects
They built it during low tide and calm weather . But those conditions are n't often met in this part of France which is known for its very high currents . So the construction usually lasted many years . I do n't know about La Jument ( the lighthouse in your picture ) but I can tell you about ArMen , also located in France not far from La Jument actually . It took them 14 years to built it . During the first years , they only managed to work for about 50h on it . Pic : URL_0 I think all of the isolated lighthouses in France have been automated since 1990 . And with the GPS they are n't that useful anymore . Considering the lack of maintenance and the storms they endure every winter it 's only a matter of time before they collapse :(
Well in most of those cases , they 're naming the food , not the company . Most of those chips are just brand names , not the name of the company . So one chip is a Frito , a bag of them is a bag of Fritos . As for Lay 's though , they 're named after the man who founded the company that makes them , Herman Lay . In that case it 's not plural it 's possessive . They 're not multiple Lays , they 're the chips that belong to Mr. Lay .
History Facts about the Current Government Shutdown and Impending Default with Citations ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In January of 1989 ( While Reagan was still president ) the republicans published a paper outlining a healthcar overhaul plan that included much of what is in todays Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act , also known as Obamacare URL_6 , In October of 1989 , they expanded the paper into a book URL_40 ca re - for - all - americans andhttp://thf_media URL_32 This was created more than 4 years before anyone even heard of Bill and Hillary Clinton , URL_35 ns ervative - history - of - the - individual - mandate/ They pushed for this plan over the course of 2 decades , and they even supported this plan as late as 2008 URL_27 Then When the democrats agreed to adopt this plan , the GOP suddenly ( and at that point only ) decided the plan was unconstitutional and posed a grave threat to the nation . And refused to support any aspect of it They sued in the supreme court but lost URL_38 Ca re - Act They ran presidential candidate who opposed the Affordable Care Act even though he had passed a nearly identical law in the State of Massachusetts URL_20 iv e - think - tank - invented - the - individual - mandate/ Obama was re - elected with the Affordable Care Act being a center piece of the election URL_5 Republicans opposed the ACA because it hate
I do n't know about the pooping part , but I can explain the eating part . Essentially , what controls how fast your body utilizes food and stored fat is called metabolism , normally this is a fairly decent pace . However , bears eat loads before hibernating which is then turned into fat , then their internal metabolism slows waaay down . They 're living off of stored fat , more or less , as fat is just stored food and energy ( basically ) . The large amount of fat helps keep them warm , and is metabolized ( or turned into energy for the body ) at such a slow pace , they wake from hibernation almost as if they had never started the process . I do n't know if they ever wake up during Hibernation , but mother bears are known for giving birth while they hibernate and not waking up . The cub instinctively cuddles with the mom for warmth and nutrition through milk .
I ca n't believe no one has said this yet : Most Californians do n't want this at all . A few politicians think things would work out better for them if they could ' gerrymander ' the state . No one takes it seriously , just like no one really thinks Texas is going to secede , or that Oregon and Washington are going to kidnap British Columbia and create a [ new country ] ( URL_0 .
In the case of Taiwan , China 's ( People 's Republic of China / PRC ) official policy is essentially " one country , two systems . " Under this policy , Taiwan ( as well as Hong Kong and Macau ) are technically considered territories of the PRC , but are allowed to operate with a high level of autonomy , maintaining their own political and economic systems . So China does not actively try to interfere with Taiwan 's governance , but does maintain that it is a territory of China and not a separate nation . Taiwan ( Republic of China / ROC ) rejects this policy . There are two main factions in Taiwan : one that supports unification with China ( i.e. asserting that the ROC is the true sovereign government of both countries ) and one that supports independence ( i.e. that China and Taiwan should be two separate nations ) .
The Islamic State ( previously ISIS / ISIL ) is attempting to create a unified Sunni state in Iraq and the Levant . The borders of the Middle East region were drawn over 100 years ago by the French and British and now this group is reshaping them to fit their vision of an Islamic State . The US is bombing a limited number of targets as they have begun to advance on the Kurdish areas of Iraq . The Kurds have been allies of the US for decades and the US is unwilling to let them be overran by forces of the Islamic State .
It 's a fair question . Typically no , there 's no negative hue ; it ranges from 0 to 359 . But when they were doing early experiments with getting TV screen and monitor colors right they found out that there are colors we can see in the real world that monitors ca n't recreate . Typically screens like the one you 're looking at right now create colors by adding different hues of lights together - a lot of closely packed pixels combine to make an overall hue . Naturally this is called an additive process . Physically mixing colors , like with paints , you 'll get a different color , even if you mix the exact same red , green , yellow , or blue that you did with lights . This is because paints , or physical pigments , only reflect certain frequencies of light ; they do n't emit them . Mixing various colors this way ends up subtracting the hues , or colors . So when they first started calibrating the colors in the color TV system they learned subtractive mixing of colors could give you hues that the additive process ca n't , and never will . They did figure out a way to quantify the difference though . They got two shades , one from adding colors and one from subtracting , as close as they could visually be . Then they added colored light to the physical pigments until they
Short answer : you can , and you will see real times throughout college when they spring those scantrons at random times . Long answer : theoretically you could put graphite that 's too light for the scantron ie an architecture student using a drafting pencil . They make it seem like the scantron has a really high threshold but actually it 's low .
What s with the jokes ? Basically , they are a supposed organization which conspiracy theorists claim control the world secretly , staying in the shadows , pulling the strings . People claim that they control currency values , what gets made for TV and Cinema , that they control the news , that they manipulate world events , that they are the reason for most wars in modern times . Theorists point to many clues , such as the [ Murals ] ( URL_0 in Denver Airport , the '' All Seeing Eye '' on the US Dollar , the prominence of Freemasons through history , and many others . I 'd do some more research if your interested , but take whatever information you see with a pinch of salt , as most of them are '' Conspiracy Theory Crazies '' and Tinfoil Hats . Or is that just what * they * WANT YOU TO THINK ? :D * * EDIT * * : Some further information , from Wikipedia : URL_1
Imagine a wireframe cube : all edges the same length , all angles 90 degrees . Shine a light through it on a sheet of paper : the shadow will appear with all kinds of different angles and warped lengths . Rotate the cube in 3D space and the shadow will appear to do all kinds of contorted things . If you told someone on the plane that " this is a higher dimensional square " they 'd look at you like you 're crazy : sure it looks like a square sometimes , but it has different side lengths and angles and motions that are n't very becoming of a respectable square . That 's what you 're looking at , just one dimension up . This is a 3D shadow of a 4D wireframe cube , that is rotating normally in 4D space . The only reason why you see acute angles and different lengths is because the 3D space the shadow occupies is n't sufficient to represent 4D geometry properly . The extra dimension is just about hypothetically extending the relationships we have in 3 dimensions to 4 . So rotations happen around a circle or a sphere , and we can extrapolate the pattern up a dimension . Rotations take place in a plane , which is defined by a pair of directions . So in 3 dimensions we can take 3 pairs ( just by deciding which one to leave out ) , but in
Not to be gross , but during pregnancy 2 years ago , I noticed I suddenly had a freckle on the edge of my areola that was n't there before . After the birth of my son , I noticed it still there . After examining it , I noticed it was on the surface of my skin . I scratched for whatever reason and noticed it lifted on one edge . Needless to say curiosity took over , as well as a pair of tweezers , and I ripped it off . It hurt . Like fuck . But no bleeding . Have n't tried it since . Also , as someone with a ton of them , it 's always fun to be around someone who does n't , and notice that you have a new one . I mentioned I had a new one on my face one day , my brother asked how I could tell . I told him because it 's a lot easier to remember where you do n't have them versus where you do .
Wrapping your head around higher spatial dimensions ( i.e. past 3 ) is some seriously mind bending stuff . I 'll pass along the explanation I was given back in college , but I 'll warn you it took me quite a while before I could really wrap my head around higher spatial dimensions . You can think of dimensions two different ways . Either as way of locating something or as directions you can move in . If you wanted to find a particular office in a city you could give the north / south street ( It 's on Park Avenue ) and then you could give a cross street ( at 83rd street ) and then you could give the elevation ( 22nd floor ) . Now you can locate that office . Now imagine that inside that office there 's a circular track . To someone outside the office ( i.e. that can only see the three dimensions you 're used to ) you 're just inside the office , not moving . Inside the office you can walk around that track ( and have another number that describes where you at on the track ( let 's go with clock numbers ) ) . So you could walk from 3 o'clock on the track to 6 o'clock on the track . You 've moved through a dimension that the person outside the office ca n't perceive , so to them you have n't moved .
I 've heard it claimed that the response harks back to our cave - dwelling days . When we went from our damp , musty caves into the fresh outdoors , we still had nasty mold spores or whatever in our respiratory systems . Sneezing in response to light is our way of clearing out the cavejunk , so to speak .
They use different clearing systems , even though the money in the end comes from the same place ( your checking account ) . I 'll tell the story , not necessarily in exact order , but the two clearing systems developed separately . Everything I know comes from running a point of sale system for a small independent store and doing some research into how things work . First there were credit cards - BankAmericard , MasterCharge , Diner 's Club . You were borrowing money when you used them . The card company paid the merchant , you paid the card company . Banks got into the game by issuing their own cards , branded with the credit card logo . At first it all happened with pieces of paper and voice phone calls . Eventually the system became automated and virtually instant . Somewhere along the way the banks developed a separate system : debits , meaning they debited the money straight from your checking account , instead of crediting the money out of a charge account . A separate but related clearing system was developed , with lower overall fees . Taking the money straight from you account lowered the risk for everyone , and fees are generally lower because of that . But debit cards were set up to also be able to use the original credit clearing system , for stores that were n't set up to do debits . The fees for each
Not very well , being a games developer most in - game AI 's are very very basic and are not aware of their environments or other players . Ever wonder why there are so many zombie games , or why so many games ( mostly older games now but still the case with many newer titles ) have only enemies ? Because writing AI for enemies that only know how to attack you on sight or zombies ( that are naturally very dumb ) is A LOT easier and more convincing than writing AI 's that now have to respond to your actions which are not pre - determined and not repeat the same 4 lines over and over again . Now it IS actually easily possible to write a super convincing friendly AI in a game but this takes significant time and resources and is quite expensive on the CPU so most game developers avoid it and it is still sadly a very overlooked area in games . We 're all hoping that re - usable AI solutions become standard in a few years similar to how game engines are today . Games like No Mans Sky we 're hoping have convincing and reactive AI and push this forward some .
As someone very short , it 's not so bad most of the time . You can almost always arrange to be with someone taller than you . But if you 're not , shopping sucks , clothes suck , things on the top shelf suck , not being able to reach things because your arms are short as an extension of your general shortness , people thinking you 're incapable of basic tasks of treating you like a small child also sucks .
By experimenting , seeing what kind of equation might fit the results of the experiments , and then seeing whether that equation works with future observations . Simple example : attach a weight to one end of a coiled spring and let the spring hang down so that the weight hangs off the bottom . Measure the extension of the spring ( how much it has stretched ) for this weight . Repeat with different weights , making sure none of them are too heavy to stretch the spring permanently . Plot extension against weight on a graph , and see what you get . You should get a straight line . This tells you that extension is proportional to weight , or that there is a * linear relationship * between weight ( or gravitational force ) and extension . You can then use a * linear equation * something like this : x = kF where F is the force on the spring , x is its extension , and k is a constant ( called the * constant of proportionality * , because extension is proportional to force ) . The value of k will depend on the units you use to measure the force and the extension . This equation is called * Hooke 's law * . For more complicated equations , the process is essentially the same . Some equations may derived from others : for example , if you know that two variables
Well the most commonly banned weapons are weapons that ca n't discriminate between a combatant and a civilian . When you attack another country , you do n't want to kill it 's civilians , they 're just normal people , they really are n't to blame for the actions of that nation which pissed you off so much , and they 're the ones who will pick up most of the pieces after you leave , so if you treat them well , they 're less likely to want to get revenge . So giving them the plague , or asphyxiating schools , or nuking the whole damn place to hell is generally frowned upon . As well as cruel and unusual deaths by more standard means . For instance , triangular - shaped bayonets were banned because the wound was a bitch to stitch up , and it would inflict a slow , gangrenous death . Now , once enough countries realize that wars should be fought primarily between soldiers , and not soldiers vs. civilians , they got together at Geneva and signed these accords to ban certain weapons . Now , in order to actually enforce these bans , they made it illegal to mass - produce and use these weapons without heavy oversight . If someone does begin mass - production unauthorized , they face severe consequence up to , and including , military intervention from the other signers , i.e. USA vs Iraq (
A lot of them did n't . There were still a lot of people with bad teeth way back when . But the answer is pretty complex . * Diet . Generally a lot more fibrous plant material , and a lot less sugary or starchy foods or acidic beverages that either feed cavity - causing bacteria or erode your dental enamel , the hard working surfaces of your teeth . * Cavity transmission . This is a critical one : cavities are actually a transmitted disease - they are caused by a certain type of bacteria . Newborns do n't have it , but a lot of adults do . So a mom 's spit as she tastes baby 's food to ensure it 's warm enough , or a shared eating utensil can give a kid cavities . Would be less chances of that in more primitive times , so whole communities would have zero cavities . * Substitute toothbrushes . Take a twig and chew the end a bit , and you have a soft toothbrush that can easily scrape away plaque . What 's interesting though is that age and life expectancy is NOT a factor . When you take into account the much greater risk of early death due to the tougher living conditions , our ' cavemen ' ancestors and related species such as Neanderthals actually did live pretty much as long as modern humans .
Every one I can think if they wrote it into the script . Only Fools and Horses ( British sitcom ) had a whole scene at grandad 's funeral . It was funny but sad . He was replaced by an Uncle character . Did n't Finn in Glee have his death written into the scrip ? . I actually have n't seen it but I think that is the case .
Punched tape or perforated paper tape is a form of data storage that consists of a long strip of paper in which holes are punched. It developed from and was subsequently used alongside punched cards, differing in that the tape is continuous. Punched cards, and chains of punched cards, were used for control of looms in the 18th century. Use for telegraphy systems started in 1842. Punched tape was used throughout the 19th and for much of the 20th centuries for programmable looms, teleprinter communication, for input to computers of the 1950s and 1960s, and later as a storage medium for minicomputers and CNC machine tools. During the Second World War, high-speed punched tape systems using optical readout methods were used in code breaking systems. Punched tape was used to transmit data for manufacture of read-only memory chips.
short : the chemical properties are different . long : shampoo is supposed to clean the hair whilst not getting it 's particles stuck between the little ( erm ... let 's see ... ) thingies your hair has ( ca n't really seem to remember the words now ) . Body gel / wash / whatever does not have to deal with that and therefor does not need fancy chemical stuffs ... It 's 3 am , I 'm forgetting words and am very incoherent . apologies .
They are a special form of crazy , however , freedom of religion and speech and assembly apply equally to them . You ca n't make exception to these freedoms , because once you say they are no longer valid for a group , you can say it for any group . If freedom of speech means you ca n't say anything that would cause you to lose your freedom of speech it does n't really count as freedom at all . Also , these freedoms mean that the Patriot Guard Riders exist as well . Edit : They do it because they are crazy . There is really no external marker to determine what they will protest or why . They announced they would protest the funeral of a boy killed in a tornado . Really no rhyme or reason .
Everything in a laptop is shrunk down to reduce size , weight & heat . Laptop CPUs are generally soldered on rather than socketed . GPUs are either integrated into the CPU or soldered onto the board as well . Laptop motherboards are generally a custom form factor , not something you can mount in a regular case . Most laptop memory uses a different physical standard than desktop memory . HDD / SSD drives are one of the few things you can reuse . Even laptop CD / DVD / BRD drives are designed to be stuck inside a laptop case rather than sit in a desktop 's drive bays .
this is the short version 1 . a bunch of people say they want to be president 2 . alot of presidential speeches take place stating why they deserve a chance . 3 . serious contenders with enough support take part in debates hosted by news channels to be asked questions regarding their stances and opinions about the country and abroad . 4 . caucuses are held to decide the main candidates for the political parties involved . 5 . primary elections begin to narrow the candidates down to only two , a democrat and republican(or another but unlikely political party as of date ) 6 . in november the final election between the two take place . negative aspects : regarding the voting itself the voting process is commonly described as unfair or corrupt to most(though the complaints are usually done by the losing voters ) . what happens during the voting process in November is that the masses votes go to their suggestion of the wanted president . the reason why its referred to as " suggested " by me is that the votes do n't directly go towards the candidate . ready to get worried ? we are not electing the president , we are electing OTHER PEOPLE to vote for him . and in ~24 states these people ( retired politicians mostly ) can vote for whomever they want regardless of what their represented voters demand become our president . so basically you tell a random
The pieces of an atom are held together with large but finite forces . A supercollider accelerates atoms in opposite directions to almost the speed of light and then makes them smash into each other with some very powerful magnets . As it turns out , even single atoms break if you hit them hard enough , like if it hits another atom traveling at almost lightspeed in the other direction .
Who says it 's bad to quit ' without cause ' ? Thought that does n't make much sense , why would you leave a job for absolutely no reason ? It 's bad to quit without * notice * , but that 's different . That tells future employers you do n't care much about the vacuum you leave when you quit .
It 's best to think of your engine as _ enforcing _ a certain spin rate of your wheels , based on the relationship of the engine to the wheels via the gears . If you change the gears , you 're applying the power of your engine to a different rate of spin . In the case of downshifting you are saying " apply a bunch of power to a lower spin rate " . This power is then utilized to enforce the slower spin rate which means you 're now moving slower .
Think of it this way . Like others have said , without an X , it does n't become human . The X is required for life . females are XX , but each cell only uses one of the Xs and the other is inactivated and never used again in that cell 's life . Which X is inactivated varies . So the Y addition in XY makes a male , and the male only has one X to choose from . URL_0 fun fact : X inactivation is why only female cats can be calico . The allele for black and orange fir is on the X chromosome . Males can be black or orange but not both because they have only one X ( and that X can not be inactivated , or we 're back to the whole ' dead ' problem ) . Similarly , an X chromosome can code for black or orange but not both . So some cells inactivate black ( and become orange ) and some inactivate orange ( and become black ) . Sorry for the tangent .
I do n't have any diagnosis , but as someone who has a lot of anxiety and is pretty much mute around strangers it 's because I 'd simply rather not take the chance of anything I may say going badly , so I 'd rather just have everything by the book . A lot of the time when I get anxious my mind just stops into a full gridlock and I just take everything seriously so by the time I have something " safe " to say it 's already too late . In really stressful situations it 's good to be quiet to skirt any unwanted attention so I come off as mute in group settings . It 's a lot easier to talk one on one because I can manage my expectations of how that one individual will act , compared to the mutiny of a big group . I look at talking in a big group in the same way as if I was trying to ask out 30 girls simultaneously .
Do you realize how old the phone actually is ? The rotary part would send pulses down the line based on how wound up you got the dial . Push button uses tones . It took some time , decades , to realize and implement the technology that a single wire can carry many bandwidths worth of information , assuming you have the tech to parse out those overlapping signals . This is despite the fact that we knew audio signals ( diaphragm , magnet , coil , wires ) could be converted to electrical signals and back again resulting in audio recording and transmission .
I work with " the Internet " , meaning many small ISPs , and this is basically how it works : The " Internet " is not a single , monolithic thing . It 's like the " Economy " . All the Internet is , is a bunch of smaller networks hooked together . When it first started ( by the US Government ) , the main networks it connected were US Military networks , and Universities . Then the big companies ( think IBM , AT & T , etc . ) got in on it . These companies already had thousand - host networks in the 80 's . So naturally , they connected to each other and the Internet was born . When you connect your house to your ISP , you 're but one node in the network . Your ISP , made up of you and all your neighbours who also use that ISP , form your own little network . That network then connects into the broader network via interlinks and a number of protocols you 've never heard of . So your ISP might have connections to two or three other ISPs , forming a slightly larger network . If you keep expanding and interlinking networks , eventually you get the Internet : a world - wide network of smaller networks . Now on to your main question : Why ca n't you get " Internet " without an ISP ( Cable
One analogy for the immune system could be like the role of the police within a city . Just as a city is made up of many individual people , houses , and industries , our bodies are made up of many individual cells that work together to make us alive . Just like in our modern cities , the vast majority of citizens are good but there 's always the shadowy threat of bad guys lurking out there . The police have many difficult but essential tasks including : To work out who is good and who is bad ( surveillance ) To actively hunt down the bad guys ( enforcement ) To always be prepared to rapidly mobilise a decisive response when something really serious happens ( counter - terrorism ) Each task requires a different approach . One branch of the immune system responds immediately to crimes in a simplistic fashion when they happen , like a security guard . Later on , a second branch shows up to crime scenes , collects evidence and creates a criminal profile , like a detective . Another branch monitors traffic in streets ( or the blood vessels ) for individuals who match these profiles , like a traffic cop . Yet another branch carefully scans the outside of each house to determine if there is suspicious activity occurring within , like the FBI . We know a lot about the " how " of your question , but the
I 've tried to find a few resources for this , but I ca n't find any , except for what 's already stated : the dog does it to increase it 's hearing sense , or he tries to convey a message : " I 'm listening ! " However , there is a new theory stated on [ psychology today ] ( URL_0 ? ) that says it 's to increase seeing , instead of hearing . I do n't know what to think of this , but i 'll leave you to read it . enjoy !
" DRM " , the so - called set of " Digital Rights Management " technologies , is a software trick designed to make illegal copying of media ( like music and video ) very difficult while making sure " legitimate " users have easy access . There are some practical problems with DRM : 1 . DRM relies on " hiding " a secret -- if you do n't know the secret , you ca n't access the media . Obviously , you have to tell authorized people / players what the secret is , or legitimate users ca n't use what they paid for . That means that * * DRM is ultimately ineffective * * ; what you can hide , I can find . 2 . DRM has to use what 's called " default deny " - that is , you 're not allowed to see content unless your equipment passes some kind of test ( usually knowing a secret , see above ) . This means that if there is any technical problem with the DRM , legitimate users lose access to their content . This is what happened with the latest SimCity -- the producers ' servers did n't work right , and it made the SimCity game unplayable for the people who bought it . In this way , * * DRM is user - hostile * * . 3 . There is a Copyright concept called " Fair Use " --
Because email is not a feasible way to transfer large files in the first place . I think GMail nowadays wo n't do attachments per se , but rather uploads the file(s ) to Google Drive and links to them , allowing " attachments " as big as 10 GB to be sent . Since they 're not really sent at all .
working out ? Yes , as you do n't gain any vitamins or minerals from just exercise . But they can be beneficial if you are unable to consume foods that have certain vits / mins in them . For example lactose intolerant individuals often take calcium supplements . But as long as you eat a balanced diet from all the different food groups , there is no need to take any vitamins or mineral supplements as the proper diet takes care of that . And just to add on , most multivitamins are overkill . They entice you with " 200 % dose of Vitamin C , D or whatever " But you body can only use what it needs so when it has had its fill for the day , you urinate the excess amount out .
Sheriffs are elected law enforcement officers ( LEOs ) , often under the jurisdiction of the courts . Police are LEOs under the jurisdiction of the local executives -- county board , governors , etc . Their jurisdiction is a function of where they 're located and who they answer to . Highway patrol LEOs are usually state police , with jurisdiction through an entire state . Every type of LEO has a different boss and a different goal . They work together , but their objective and reason for being is different .
Technically their actual job comes from making the songs transition smoothly . There are those that do this well , where it can be as seamless as one hour long song , and those that play more of a radio DJ role where they play a song , introduce the next one and play that , etc . The " talent " comes in the beat matching of those that do the former . What this means is they line up the songs at the same tempo , and cue them so they transition well . Since songs are often in different keys and tempos this can be quite challenging if done manually , but many popular software platforms can make it simpler .
1 . Unless the sites are knowingly or actively engaging in illegal business , and make a good show of effort to remove abusive / harmful material , they do n't get punished . If that was true , you could upload an episode of Family Guy to YouTube and get them easily fined . 2 . Not all criminal acts are equivalent . I think there 's definitely a big difference between copyright infringement and racism ( which is not even illegal ) vs. child porn ... in the latter case , it 'd be taken more seriously by law enforcement , and the site would be investigated to see if they had any part in facilitating it . But music converters ? Really ?
On earth , we have an atmosphere . This said atmosphere is like a giant cover of air , all around us . You can imagine that if you stack billions of billions of air molecules on top of each other , the weight will increase ... the pressure increases . When the pressure increases , the temperature rises , just as it does when you screw a screw into something ... the longer in , the screw gets , the more force you 'll have to exert on the screw to get it in ... you press that screw so hard , and it gets very warm from that pressure . So , when you walk up a mountain , you go through all these layers of air and when you are really high up , you do nt have as much air pressing down on you as you had at sea lvl . so all in all ... pressure and temperature have a relationship .. where there is alot of airpressure there is alot of temperature :) understand ?
Meditation is basically to be in the moment . Often , People think about yesterday or tomorrow , what they 're going to do later that day , how stupid it was to do X last week . They 're stuck in their thoughts . Or you see people on the bus listening to music and/or daydreaming . Now what you do when you meditate is that you become aware of the moment : You do n't give a fuck about all those annoying thoughts about yesterday or tomorrow or whatever . So basically you do n't think , although thoughts may still go through your head . Of course there are different approaches , sometimes you focus immensely on something ( often the breath ) which will use up all focus and therefore reduce thoughts , or you try to not - focus , where you feel and observe everything in and around you . And there are still even more approaches , for example some have to do with feelings ( try to imagine a person you do n't like and imagine you hug him / like him ) for improving compassion . It 's easy to start meditation , but it takes a while until you notice and feel what it 's about and what it does . In the beginning you just sit there and afterwards you might be disappointed because you 've expected more of it . I can still highly recommend to do it
There was an askscience thread about the likelyhood of this yesterday . It 's a hypothesis that says that with increasing global warming and sea temperature , the methane clathrate buried in the permafrost of the arctic and antarctic will be released . Since methane is a strong greenhouse gas itself , it causes the sea temperature to rise even more and more . It is said that it could lead to an extinction within 100 years . It was said yesterday that at current global warming rates there is no reason to be worried for the coming centuries . Most of the gas is buried very deep and would n't be set free within 100 years . Even if the gas would escape , it will probably not reach the atmosphere . It may be broken down by microbes in the ocean or be oxidated to CO2 . This CO2 is far less dangerous .
The reality is , communism * does n't * work . The other comments give a good description of the * idea * of communism . Sure we might believe that the * idea * of communism is good , but how do we put it into practice ? That is the problem . It has been tried ( in the USSR , in China , etc ) but every attempt so far has involved serious abuses of human rights .
Imagine that you assign an imaginary , unconscious value to everything you could be doing . Perhaps playing playing video games , making food to eat , etc . are in the 7 - 8 range . Sleeping is a 5 . Studying and cleaning are a 4 . So , it 's cleaning time . Thoughts of sleeping or video games are going to keep nagging at you , because you feel these things are time better spent . When you 're doing something more fun than sleeping , sleeping does n't cross your mind for long . Try [ Pomodoro ] ( URL_0 ) ?
It 's basically become a sort of warning system for consumers of the internet . Some people are rape survivors , for instance , and want to avoid media / stories / etc that contain material related to rape , because it brings them back to that time in their lives when they were violated . This can occasionally trigger a panic attack , as well . Mostly it 's just used to be respectful to people with such issues -- if you 're going to be talking about rape in your blog , it 's nice to throw a " trigger warning " up for people who do not like to read about rape .
Yikes , without opening myself up for a world of hurt : The word " Bible " comes from the ancient Greek for " the books " and is used ( in this context ) to describe the religious texts of either Judaism or Christianity . I 'll use the Christian Bible as an example as it 's what I 'm most familiar with . The Christian Bible is split into two parts , the Old and the New Testament , each of these contain many separate books . The * * Old Testament * * contains books describing the formation of the universe and the creation of mankind ( The Book of Genesis ) and the history of the Israelites . The Old Testament contains passages you 're probably familiar with ; the stories of Adam and Eve , Noah , Moses etc are told within , these all take place before the birth of Jesus Christ The * * New Testament * * tells the tale of Jesus Christ and the formation of Christianity , it contains the narrations of Jesus ' birth , life , death and resurrection as told by his followers . Where it gets complicated is that depending on which denomination you belong to dictates how many books , and which books are contained within the Testaments , this is the major difference between the denominations . Many of the books in the Old Testament are also seen as sacred by the followers of
Hi... I understand your concern. By what you say I feel that your child might be having moderate to severe persistent allergic rhinitis along with an upper airway resistance syndrome.Previously the only treatment for upper airway resistance syndrome used to be surgery or adenotonsillectomy.But now advanced the modalities of treatment have come up, like intranasal steroids which can be given up to a period of 4 to 8 weeks and after which many kids are recovering without the need for surgery. This treatment will take care of the moderate to severe persistent allergic rhinitis also.But this technique of administration of intranasal steroids is very important and should be talk to you by your pediatrician properly.Regards - Dr. Sumanth
Hello, It might be an early sign of arthritis. As a first line management, you can take analgesics like aceclofenac or tramadol for pain relief. If symptoms persist, better to consult an orthopaedician and get evaluated. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care Regards,Dr Shinas Hussain, General & Family Physician
Plato and Aristotle were concerned with " essences . " For Plato , every chair on earth was reaching out to the essence of " chairness . " This idea of " chair " exists regardless of if there are chairs . One example is : if you were to kill every cockroach on earth ( and thank you if you did ) , would the * idea * of ' cockroach ' cease to exist ? No , arguably because the idea trumps the existence of the little buggers . Another way to think about it : you ask your buddy " What is essential for a thing to be a chair ? " and he says " Four legs . A chair must have four legs . " Does it ? [ Could n't it have three legs ? ] ( URL_0 ) What about [ no legs at all ? ] ( URL_1 ) This is a bit of an oversimplification , but by challenging what is essential for a thing to be a chair , we start to get the impression that " essences " are n't a fundamental part of a given thing like Plato and Aristotle ( and the early moderns like Descartes ) put forth . But what does that leave us with ? Just stuff , according to Sartre . It 's just a big mess of indiscernible stuff without any individual essences that would give it meaning . Meaning is just
There are bots set up to monitor every change . Some edits are obviously vandalism and can be prevented or reverted automatically . Others are slightly less obvious and get sent up for human review . People who persistently vandalize will be blocked from editing . Some bad changes do make it through . People watch articles they care about , and might fix bad changes now and then . Other people might just remove crap content they see while browsing . Pages that are vandalized persistently can be " protected " or locked down to certain editors . There have been some very persistent vandals , even including people who write bots to cause high - speed vandalism , but in general the experienced editors ( and admins ) are holding all of the keys .
You 're thinking of it in the wrong order . When an object is invented , it has a purpose . You already know what it is for . If you want to throw a knife far away , and you work with strings and sticks every day , it 's easy to imagine a bow . You will invent the bow . You 'll probably be very bad at it at the start but you know what it is for and if you want to kill some animals without taking any risk , you will practice . For object that are more complexe , like a bicycle , or musical instrument , the practice existed even before the object , it 's just before there was a simpler object and we made this new one because it would be better at accomplishing its purpose . It might be harder to use but you will go faster , or you will make better music . String - > harp - > guitar Wheel - > Draisine - > Bicycle The man that invented the bicycle already knew what he was going do to with it . Before even having one .
In nature .. the plants eventually die and their nutrients go back to the soil . Even fallen leaves and such get broken down and any nutrients in them go back to the soil . After many years you will find that plants naturally " rotate " themselves as certain species can no longer live on that soil .. but another type can and will start to grow . Some plants have deep roots ( dandelions ) that bring up nutrients from deeper than many shallow rooted plants ( lawn grass ) . In the past people did n't know about fertilizing the soil and societies collapsed when populations got to large and the crops were no longer nutritious ( this happened in central America to the Aztecs - their population kept growing but the food they were producing was less and less nutritious because the land was depleted of nutrients so they ate but were starving themselves to death at the same time ) . Mostly remember in nature we have slugs , worms , maggots , fungus , bacteria , and all sorts of things whose " job " it is to break down dead things to return them to the soil to become nutrients .
Seems like all the bits have been covered , but here 's my version : You tell your newsreader program to read a site 's feed , usually at a set interval ( hourly , daily , weekly , etc . ) that can be set to different waiting times on a per - feed basis . You fire up your newsreader program , it determines that it 's time to revisit Site X. The newsreader goes out and asks Site X for the current contents of its feed and * gets it for you * . The feed specification calls for each entry to be dated . If Site X 's feed has nothing marked newer than the last visit ( since the newsreader will know what was there the last time it checked ) , it does nothing else . If there * is * a new entry / entries , the newsreader program will notify you in whatever manner it has to say ' Look at the new stuff that Site X has ! ' This relieves you of the need to visit the site on your own with a web browser to find out if there 's anything new to look over . The * site * does n't send you anything , your * newsreader program * makes a * request * to the site for notices of new material ( going through however long a list of site feeds you 've set up )
You have to first understand that nothing is truly original , they are similar because they likely have evolved from similar origins . hip - hop can even be described as an umbrella of music . Rap can be hip - hop but hip - hop can not be rap . So they may not be wrong . But the most prominent difference without nit picking would be that rap describes an oral form of music , not necessarily joined with a beat .
Imagine you 're trying to make it so you never existed . You would n't just have to burn down your house and kill yourself , but also destroy every reference to you , wether it be your SSN , bank accounts , or even people . Yes , gruesome and crude , and I would n't say it o a 5 year old , but a functional explanation .
Short URLs were originally developed mostly to get around a problem when sending URLs in emails : some email programs would wrap text at 72 or 80 characters , breaking longer URLs . This is no longer such an issue , but they 're still useful in cases where it 's easier to write or say a short URL than a long one . Twitter was another area where short URLs used to be useful : a short URL did not take up as many of the 140 characters allowed for a tweet as a long one . I say " used to be " , because Twitter has made some changes and all URLs -- short or long -- now take the same number of characters ( Twitter actually uses it 's own shortening service , URL_0 , for all URLs ) . As to how they work , the shortening service has a database that records the long URL matching every short URL that has been created . When a user 's browser requests the short URL , the service looks up the URL in its database , and sends back what is called a ' redirect ' . A redirect is an instruction to the browser that tells it to go to a different URL : in this case , the browser is redirected to the long URL .
When it comes to a lot of art , context is more important than the actual material . Rarity , historical context etc . make a thing more valuable than its actual aesthetic properties . For example , some shitty buggy SNES or N64 games will sell for huge amounts if they are well preserved and in the original packaging etc , even when any high school student nowadays could write a better game in a week .
Hello, Welcome to HCM.Anteroseptal infarct seen on ECG or EKG = electrokardiogram means that you did have a heart attack = the heart muscle was damaged by a clogged coronary artery and this is what causes the changes seen by the doctors on the ECG recording. These changes are quite specific and characteristic and it is not likely that other medical conditions like indigestion would have produced them. Also, since these changes were seen on several different occasions, this makes an anteroseptal infarct quite certain.After an infarct the damaged area of the heart muscle undergoes scarring and it may also result in thickening of that area as seen on the Echocardiogram.Some patients, especially diabetics, do not have symptoms like chest pain when they are having their heart attacks, so it is possible to just see the EKG changes of an "old MI" old myocarial infarction on an EKG while the patient does not even know that they had a heart attack.Typically an acute heart attack causes severe chest pain, Shortness of breath and makes one very ill and treatment in the hospital is required , where blood tests are done to confirm a diagnosis of so called acute MI.Hope this helps you understand this issue.Wishing you best of health.
It depends on what type of generation you are talking about . There are family generations , which is self - explanatory . However , you are talking about " social generations . " Basically , they are defined as an age cohort that has similar experiences and mindset / culture . To use a standard example , a man born in 1924 was old enough to fight in WWII , while a man born in 1925 was n't . That produced personality and character differences that lasted a life time . Some other examples : A Baby Boomer is too young to remember WWII or the Depression . They did n't experience the strife and turmoil of those years , and instead can only recall the safe and sterile post war period . Generation X , OTOH , is too young to remember the JFK assassination , and no memory of the ordered 1950s world . They can only recall the social turmoil and cultural ferment of the 1960s and 1970s . A Millennial or Generation Y is too young to remember anything related to the 1960s and 1970s . Strauss and Howe explain it in great detail . Make sure to read the links on the left of the page too . And read [ Generations ] ( URL_2 ) and [ The Fourth Turning ] ( URL_1 ) . URL_0
Computers do n't necessarily " produce " 1 's and 0 's in the sense that they do n't manufacture them . Rather , they " present " hardware states that are interpreted as numbers . By state , I do n't mean a state like Texas , I mean a particular condition that a hardware piece is in at a specific time . For example , think of a light switch . It can be in either two states : up or down . For the sake of this example , consider up to be on , and down to be off . The state ( or condition ) of the switch is determined by the physical position of the switch . Now , flipping the switch does n't produce 1 's and 0 's , but we can interpret the position of the switch such that on=1 and off=0 . An item that can only have two states can be considered binary . In computers , a single binary unit is referred to as a bit . Multiple bits can be grouped together to store numbers larger than 1 . When this happens we are using base - two ( binary ) counting . When you count with your fingers , you 're essentially using base-10 ( decimal ) counting that you 're familiar with . Now , think of a wall with one of those panels that have two light switches on them . Again , flipping
It is a community that believe they are nonhumans ( angels , dragons , animals , even na'vi ) in human bodies . They are typically low achievers dissatisfied with their lives who want to reinvent themselves in some unique , exotic way that makes them superior to normal people , while explaining why they do n't fit in . Their community is , for lack of a better term , a circlejerk of believing each others ' wild stories , and being collectively outraged when people tell them they are crazy .
The purpose is to scare kids into behaving - same reason for all religion . If you 're bad you get coal . The elf on the shelf is watching you masturbate . Your soul is being graded at all times and you are punished for a bad grade and rewarded for a good one . Of course , there are serious flaws with this logic . Poor kids who treat everyone with respect are still not getting an Xbox . If they are taught about Santa they think they did something wrong . Shitty rich kids get rewarded even if they are brats . It associates parents with money with a kid 's worth as a human being . I think it is harmful in pretty much every way .
[ “ The headdress is reserved for our revered elders who , through their selflessness and leadership , have earned the right to wear one . It ’s a spiritual garb , not just cultural ; it ’s not merely an addition to one ’s attire . Wearing one , even an imitation headdress , belittles what our elders have spent a lifetime to earn . ” ] ( URL_0 ) So it would be like wearing the Pope or a cardinal 's hat and dancing around on a stage singing about casual sex . Devout Catholics would see that as mocking their beliefs . If you 're trying to get yourself publicity , wearing a headdress sacred to some people is certainly one way . And I think that makes it even more questionable .
Because the healthcare industry in the US is run for profit before any other consideration . Ostensibly it is supposed to be a free market , but really it is n't , it is highly regulated . Unfortunately , unlike in many other countries which also have highly regulated healthcare industries the regulation benefits those that are seeking to make a profit rather than those that use the products and services .
3 things : 1 . In films , what happens is all scripted . It only has to look good from one angle , in one setting , one time . In a game , you have to make something that looks good several times , in different situations , different lighting , from different angles etc . It 's much harder - there are tricks you can use when making a film that you ca n't get away with in a game . 2 . Power . The computers they use to render CGI for films are much more powerful than a home console , and can do much more 3 . Time . This is the big one . In a game , each frame has to be drawn very quickly . If you 're getting 60FPS , the console only has one 60th of a second to figure it all out . When rendering a film , you can pretty much take as long as you want , so they take their time and make it perfect . Considering all the restrictions consoles have compared to film CGI , they do a really good job .
Greek culture has been through kind of a lot since they invented western civilization . They were invaded by Nazis , the Soviets tried to spread communism there , and they 've generally been through a lot of political chaos . Because of all this instability , modern Greek culture suffers from a lot of distrust , both among Greeks themselves and between Greeks and their government . There 's a huge amount of corruption and tax evasion , which takes money out of the government budget . But instead of taking care of the problem , the government thought it could make the economy look better by literally just making up numbers and telling everybody things were great .
Not including the compound of the rubber ( race ties being softer , and usually of a different chemical makeup ) , the difference comes down to water and heat cycles . Race tires without treads make the most contact , but they are used only in the dry . Consumer tires have to handle multiple conditions , including water . The treads channel water away from the tires surface , allowing the tire to make contact with the road instead of floating on top of the water . Consumer tires have far less traction when " bald " usually due to heat cycling , and the fact the the compound at that level is often different than the compound at the surface when a tire is newer . Heat cycling is essentially the hardening of the rubber each time the tire warms up and cools down . The harder the tire , the less grip . Many racers that are restricted to " street " tires will often shave tread off of brand new tires to reduce the amount of tread " squirm " and often get to a different compound ( if the tire is molded in such a way ) .
While there are lots of challenging things about landing on the moon , with regards to its ' high speed ' , it depends on your [ frame of reference ] ( URL_1 ) . You have experienced frame of reference before , when you have travelled on the highway . Relative to the earth and trees around you , you 're moving pretty fast . However , because traffic around you is also moving at close to your speed , you could probably easily shake hands with the passenger of the car beside you if the drivers matched speeds . [ Here ] ( URL_0 ) is a short video illustrating the effects of reference frames . ( Try not to worry about wholly understanding centrifugal or coriolis forces if they seem confusing ) The moon is moving quickly , but by matching its velocity , there is less difficulty .
It 's not just African Americans , there are other English dialects that pronounce it " aks " , and both versions even date back to Old English . It 's probably not that African Americans changed ask to aks , it 's that they held onto it while the rest of the American dialects unified on ask . It could be metathesis like AnteChronos suggested , but you do n't find sk turning into ks in any other words . ( For example , " mask " is n't pronounced " max " , it 's specific to " ask " . )
I am not an expert but if chemical reactions happen faster at greater temperatures . This means that there would be more flavour chemicals binding to your taste buds which would amplify the flavour . I guess that humans evolved to like stronger flavours since if something has a strong sweet flavour for example it would mean it had lots of sugar .
Assuming you are Resident Indian. As per Indian Income Tax As per section 208 every person whose estimated tax liability for the year exceeds Rs. 10,000, shall pay his tax in advance in the form of “advance tax”. Thus, any taxpayer whose estimated tax liability for the year exceeds Rs. 10,000 has to pay his tax in advance by the due dates prescribed in this regard. However, as per section 207, a resident senior citizen (i.e., an individual of the age of 60 years or above) not having any income from business or profession is not liable to pay advance tax. In other words, if a person satisfies the following conditions, he will not be liable to pay advance tax: Hence only self assessment tax need to be paid without any interest. Refer the full guideline on Income tax website
I've seen a lot of long and complicated answers here so here is my simple and short answer: Let's say the economy consists of: 10 apples and 10$. Then an apple costs 1$. If you print 10$ more you have: 10 apples and 20$. Then an apple costs 2$. That is it! It's not what Kenshin said: Over time, prices go up! However I would like to add something more on the topic: inflation is theft! If I hack the bank and steal 10% from each account it's obvious that it is theft. It's a bit less obvious when the government prints out money and people loose 10% of the value in their bank accounts but the end result is the same. Final note: some may disagree but I do not consider inflation when 5 of the apples rot and you have: 5 apples and 10$ and an apple now costs 2$. This is a drop in supply and if the demand stays the same prices will rise.
Short Answer : Food . Long Answer : The mother 's body works like a surrogate set of organs , performing all the processes that the developing child is n't yet equipped to handle . One of the most critical being the supply of energy and nutrients essential for growth . As the mother eats and drinks , food is broken down into base components and processed by the digestive tract , some of which proceeds to the child . From this comes both the energy and the mass used in the physical act of development , much like how a person naturally converts food into various body components ( blood , fat , muscle , etc . ) during the course of their adult life .
ESPN is the most expensive cable Chanel by far for cable companies to subscribe to . They pay each channel for the right to broadcast their channels but ESPN demands an extreme amount . So much so that cable companies have to increase what they charge for other channels and packages to compensate As a result many cable companies are toying with the idea of dropping ESPN completely in order to make them more competitive with streaming services that are already far cheaper than Cable .
.... THE MAJOR PARTIES .... CONSERVATIVE Centre - Right wing party , heavily Capitalist in focus and conservative in policy . Popular with : the Upper - classes , economically well off , Older Generations , the establishment . currently in Majority in Parliament Due to a coalition with the Liberal party . considered to be one of the two major parties to control parliament . The Party has lost many core - supporters to the rise of UKIP . source : URL_2 LABOUR ( NEW LABOUR ) Centre left ( through leaning right after Tony Blair 's new labour movement ) Popular with : Lower Classes , Trade unions , liberal - socialists . has alternated control of parliament since the end of world war 1 with the conservative party . Has lost a lot of support from old world socialists after the New Labour movement . due to an apparent shift in policy from Left to right . through they are considered to be one of the largest UK political parties they have lost significant support due to indecision over EU policy , immigration and NHS policy . URL_1 LIBERAL DEMOCRATS Centre Liberal Party , Up until the last election the Liberals had a Socialist , Pro - EU , Very Liberal policies . These have been abandoned in favour of coalition strength and adopted conservative policies . Popular with : Academics , Intellectuals , New - Age movement , Liberals , students , political activists . Previously
Mostly it involves hiding money and being generally dishonest with what expenses come from where and where money comes and goes in a company . " Bad accounting " can be accidental , but " cooking the books " is intentional deception -- usually by manipulating the rules of tax deductions and expenses to benefit the business . I might say someone worked more hours than they actually did , or less hours . I might buy things for the office using personal credit cards , or buy personal things using the company cards . I might call something a business expense when it 's actually a personal one ( like a sexy new car ) . There are a lot of ways to cook books , but just about anyone who knows what they 're doing and is paying attention can see it 's happening -- which is why the IRS requires companies to maintain original receipts and the data from which they built their financial records .
Yes, PMI is what the lender requires to loan you more than 8O% of the home's value. I could easily present scenarios where it's exactly the right decision to use PMI and get the purchase done. A 100K mortgage at 90% LTV will cost you $521/year in PMI. If you are renting and struggling to get a higher downpayment, it can take quite a long time to save the additional $11K to put down. Only the buyer can know if the house is such s bargain, or if rates have bottomed, but the decision isn't so clear cut.
It 's long , it 's complicated , there 's lot of back and forth recriminations . The huge problem with telling you about the situation is that there are facts that support both sides arguments ( The first leaders of Israel were members of a terrorist group that was responsible for the worst terrorist atrocity until 911 ; Hamas and the PLO have demanded the destruction of the Jewish state and have taken part in attacks on it ; the Arab countries have similarly demanded an end to the Jewish state - all these are historical facts , they are all used as justifications for continued distrust and aggression ) . The simplest explanation is that the Israel is now controlled by a party that is acting similarly to how anti - Jewish ( I do n't like anti - semite , it 's inaccurate ) groups and individuals have acted throughout history . It is important that you distinguish between the actions of the Israeli government along with the faith backed insanos in the West Bank and the beliefs of it 's citizens . There are many Israeli citizens and many Jews worldwide who find the occupation of the West Bank ; the mass denial of human rights ; and the institution of Apartheid within Israel to be as abhorrent as most of the rest of the world do . That assessment will be seen as one - sided and biased by many so I genuinely believe that
The military uses the nomenclature of Y year , D day , H hour , M minute , S second , and T time . " D - Day " was really just one of many D " days " of WWII ; the day when something important was scheduled to happen . T time just means " the time when something is supposed to happen " . T minus means " before that time " , T plus means " after that time " . This nomenclature seeped out of the military and is used in a lot of engineering applications for its clarity and convenience .
I like the answer given by mikeazo. If paid in cash would you immediately buy the stock of the company? We all want to be the next Steve Jobs (or Woz), but the truth is that a Jobs comes along only once in a lifetime and chances are that you are not him. We have seen this kind of question here before. Search the site for the answers given previously.
The O-Level (Ordinary Level) is a subject-based qualification conferred as part of the General Certificate of Education. It was introduced in place of the School Certificate in 1951 as part of an educational reform alongside the more in-depth and academically rigorous A-Level (Advanced Level) in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Those three jurisdictions replaced O-Level gradually with General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) completely by 1988 and, the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) over time. The Scottish equivalent was the O-grade (replaced by the Standard Grade). The AO-Level (Alternative Ordinary Level) was formerly available in most subject areas. Sometimes incorrectly known as the Advanced Ordinary Level, the AO Level syllabus and examination both assumed a higher degree of maturity on the part of candidates, and employed teaching methods more commonly associated with A-Level study. The AO Level was discontinued, with final qualifications awarded in 1988. The O-Level qualification is still awarded by CIE Cambridge International Examinations, the international counterpart of the British examination Board OCR (Oxford, Cambridge & Royal Society of Arts), in select locations, instead of or alongside the International General Certificate of Secondary Education qualifications. Both CIE and OCR have Cambridge Assessment as their parent organisation. The Cambridge O-Level has already been phased out and is no longer available in certain administrative regions.
It 's impossible to know this , because presumably your cousin was raised by your uncle . So he saw how his dad walked every day and would probably have subconsciously modeled his way of walking on what he had seen others do , especially close people who he 'd be expected to look up to . I have a lot of the same mannerisms as my parents , and while I suppose some of it might be genetic , the reality is that I lived in their house for 16 years and , as a baby , I would have modeled all my most basic ways of interacting with the world on what I saw them do . The only way to know this for sure would be to test families where the children were n't raised by their biological parents .
Inside a hard drive there is a read -head . Kind of like the arm on a record player . So , if you want to read a file , and it is on the outside of the disk , and the head is currently near the middle of the disk , then you have to wait while the hard drive controller moves the head from one place to another . Additionally , the file may be split up into pieces and strewn about the disk . This slows access down , too , as you have to wait for the head to shift . This is called fragmentation , and there are programs that undo this , such as " ultra defrag " . And finally , you have multiple programs all trying to read and write at the same time , so the read head has to bounce back and forth between the files . SSD drive works more like computer memory , it 's directly addressable , so there is no delay when reading and writing for a " head " to move .
However seedless fruits arose ( natural mutation or breeding , since we 've had them since before GMO ) , the plants that produce them obviously ca n't reproduce on their own . The growers have to take a cutting from a seedless plant and create a whole new plant from that . With fruit trees , this can involve grafting the cutting onto the existing root system of another tree that has been cut down for this purpose . If you 're in a fruit orchard ( I often drive past them here in California ) look for a clear line half way up the trunk of all the trees . Those trees have all been grafted , and are all clones from that line upwards .
There are multiple ways to write any character . Just look at different fonts . It just so happens that in the case of a and 4 , there are two popular main styles used in print which are very obviously different . Other equally obvious examples include 1 , 7 , g , w , l and z. If you look at handwriting , the differences are way bigger .
It all has to do with context . The pipes / bongs are sold for tobacco use only . Find it with tobacco , it 's probably for tobacco . Find it with weed , it 's probably for weed , aka drug paraphernalia . It 's like here in Illinois , I can have lock picks on my person legally , as long as I 'm not breaking into a place . Get caught with them while burglarizing a place and they are considered burglars tools , because I 'm doing a burglary . Do drugs with paraphernalia and it 's drug paraphernalia . It 's all contextual .
Our media options in the 1980 's were n't limited , they were amazing ! We had some incredible stuff to enjoy , in the form of classic movies , cartoons , video games , and books . We had dungeons and dragons . We had VCRs . We had comic books and the Sunday funnies . We had classic Mad magazine . We had hilarious late - night tv like SNL and Johnny Carson . We had arcades . We had cassette tapes for recording songs on the radio and listening later on our walkmans . We had awesome synthpop and arena guitar rock . We also had limitations . You could n't use electronics all day , every day . You had to wait for shows to come on . You had to catch a movie while it was still in the theater . You had to figure out the puzzle in Space Quest all by yourself instead of looking up the FAQ . You invited your friends from school over to play co - op Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles , because there was no option to play online with racist adolescents .
Partially because of Russia / USSR , but also because of China , Vietnam , NK , Cuba , and the few other remaining communist powers and the general poverty their countries are in / were in . Communism represents the * exact opposite * values that the US was founded upon -- namely free market enterprise and the ability to own personal property .
Assuming you speak English , with an American accent , and that you want the German pronunciation of umlauts , this guide should be helpful : ä sounds like the e in " wet " ö is very difficult to describe in terms of English sounds . Think about how you would pronounce " ur , " but drop off the " ruh " part of the r. That 's the closest I can think of . ü is almost , but not quite , like the " ew , " in " few . " You sort of drop the " wuh " part of the w though . Source : Student of German for 5 years .
' Islam ' and the ' Nation of Islam ' are n't the same religion . ' Islam ' is a de - centralized theology based on Judeo - Christian teachings with the addition of the Koran . The ' Nation of Islam ' is an authoritarian black supremacist religion that borrows from the three Abrahamic religions while introducing a completely new ( and fundamentally incompatible ) mythology of its own . Nor did you really find mainstream black activists joining it . It appealed primarily to criminals and crazies rather than mainstream activists and played no significant role in the Civil Rights movement - except perhaps as a hindrance to the adoption of Civil Rights due to its extremist nature . You did see some relatively mainstream sports stars such as Kareem abdul Jabbar and Muhammed Ali joining it , but that 's really no different from the fact that Tom Cruise joined Scientology . Note : Some of the other answers seem to based on the selling points of the Nation of Islam . However , this is a highly inaccurate understanding of Africa . The reason there are so many Christians in Africa is because they voluntarily accepted Christianity . The reason there are so many Muslims is because black Africans were conquered and enslaved by Muslims . On the flip side , the black churches were the focal point of the Civil Rights movement from the dawn of the Civil Rights movement . This might explained
It 's because your full bladder keeps your blood from circulating freely through the penis . When you get a boner by mental / physical stimulation , the cavernous bodies of your penis apply pressure to the blood vessels , so more blood flows into your penis than back into your body . The same happens when your bladder is full .
We do n't hear our voices lower . We just hear a richer , fuller sound . The pitch stays the same . Similarly , when someone breathes helium , it does n't actually make the pitch of the voice go up . The pitch stays the same . The helium just makes the voice sound squeaky like a chipmunk , but the actual pitch is unchanged . Our brain is n't good at separating those two concepts , so most people describe it as " higher " or " lower " .
Q1 : Location matters because many diseases have " resevoirs " , that is , other life forms that complete part of the life cycle but is not adversely affected by the pathogen . I assume you 're referring to the recent Ebola outbreak in Africa . Ebola is endemic to Africa because it needs certain African bat species to survive . Q2 : Mostly because of awareness . An outbreak happens , people freak out , two years later they forget , and another outbreak happens .
The cool thing about intelligent vehicle is that they will use each other as information nodes along a freeway . So if a car half mile ahead detects a patch of black ice , it will relay that information backwards down the freeway to prepare upcoming drivers . How the cars will deal with the actual ice is probably dependent on whatever programming or protocols they use . Some may compensate by applying anti - lock systems , some might return manual control to the driver while warning them of what 's ahead . I 'm sure there 's many other very ingenious workarounds too .
It 's my understanding that special nickel - chromium " super alloys " are needed . More importantly , treatments of hydrofluoric acid is needed to " passivate " the material . This creates a thin layer of unreactive nickel fluorides on the inside of tubes , pipes , valves , and cylinders . This largely prevents further corrosion of the material by the ClF3 . Polytetrafluoroehylene ( PTFE ) can also be used as seals and gaskets , to prevent metal - to - metal rubbing . ClF3 is a powerful florinating agent , but PTfE is already fully combined with fluorine .
The ending is left somewhat ambiguous as to whether or not the top starts to falter . Ultimately the top is n't supposed to matter . Throughout the film , Cobb is constantly obsessed with reality vs the dream . He holds a gun to his head as the top spins , he rushes to the bathroom after exiting the dream to spin his top , etc . The point of the ending however is that Cobb has moved past all that . Whether or not he 's in the dream becomes immaterial , as long as he 's happy .
A digital image is an image composed of picture elements, also known as pixels, each with finite, discrete quantities of numeric representation for its intensity or gray level that is an output from its two-dimensional functions fed as input by its spatial coordinates denoted with x, y on the x-axis and y-axis, respectively. Depending on whether the image resolution is fixed, it may be of vector or raster type. By itself, the term "digital image" usually refers to raster images or bitmapped images (as opposed to vector images).[citation needed]
In New York , there are parts of Manhattan where the buildings are heated by steam generated in centralized plants and distributed through pipes . Sounds somewhat nuts , but it allows the steam created by power plants to usefully heat buildings rather than just be vented into the air . URL_0 Anyhow , this steam sometimes leaks up through the street and you get a very dramatic foggy effect which filmmakers love to recreate for nighttime city scenes .
Names are often derived from jobs or physical appearance or things like that . Some jobs are more common than others . For example , Smith is a common name . Blacksmithing was a common job : every town or village would have a ' smith so it 's natural that there were more people called Smith than something else .
_ Edit : Spelling and formatting _ * * SILENT HILL FOR FIVE YEAR OLDS * * Somewhere in America , there is a lake , and a town right next to it . It 's a very beautiful town and people always liked to go there . At some point , people noticed that many of the people that came there were bad people who did bad things . There was a lot of killing in the name of made up gods , there were desasters , it was all very bad . And soon the town needed prisons and churches and hospitals for the sick of mind . Before the town could be destroyed by all the bad people , religion helped to keep them busy and secret , and they wrote down explanations and stories to make sense of it , and this religion became very powerful and influenced everything that happened in the city . And still the town on the lake was beautiful , and people started to like to go there again . The town build hotels and motels and grew bigger and bigger ! But at the same time , the religious people got crazier and crazier . They felt like this town was special , and they tried to explain why it made people bad , and one day they decided that if they could just capture and use that power , they could turn the town into paradise ! But they
It is spinning at the same rate that it rotates around the Earth . As far as why its tidally locked has to do with gravity and distance . Because it is close to us it has become tidally locked with the heavier side always facing us . In order for it to begin spinning again as see from our POV it would have to be hit at just the right angle by a good sized meteor .
EDIT quid keenly identified the 1:7 reverse split In May 2017. In a 1:7 reverse split, your shares are worth 7 times as much per share but you have 1/7 the amount of shares. A share worth $3.78 now was worth (all else being equal) $0.54 a month ago. So a call with a $2.50 strike a month ago was well out-of-the-money, and would now be the equivalent of a call with a $17.50 strike. A $17.50 call with a $3.78 underlying (or a $2.50 call with a $0.54 underlying) would reasonably be worth only 5 cents. So I now suspect that the quote is a stale quote that existed pre-split and hasn't been adjusted by the provider. OLD ANSWER I can find no valid reason why those calls would be so cheap. The stock price has been trending down from its onset in 2000, so either no one expects it to be above $2.50 in a month or it's so illiquid that there's not any real data to evaluate the options. They did pay some massive (30%) dividends in 2010 and 2012, they've been hemorrhaging cash for the past 4 years at least, and I have found at least on "strong sell" rating, so there's not much to be optimistic about. NASDAQ does not list any options for the stock, so it must be an OTC trade. With an ask size of 10 you could buy calls on 1,000 shares for $0.05, so if you can afford to lose
If you use a financial planner not only should they be a fiduciary but you should just pay them an hourly rate once a year instead of a percentage unless the percentage is cheaper at this time. To find a good one, go to the National Association of Personal Financial Advisers website, NAPFA.org. Another good resource is Garrett Planning Network: GarrettPlanningNetwork.com.
Yes, many hedge funds (for example) did not survive 2008-2009. But hedge funds were failing both before and after that period, and other hedge funds thrived. Those types of funds are particularly risky because they depend so much on leverage (i.e. on money that isn't actually theirs). More publically-visible funds (like those of the big-name index fund companies) tended not to close because they are not leveraged. You say that "a great many companies" failed during the recession, but that's not actually true. I can't think of more than a handful of publically-traded companies that went bankrupt. So, since the vast majority of publically-traded companies stayed in business, their stocks kept some/most of their value, and the funds that owned those stocks stayed afloat. I personally did not see a single index fund that went out of business due to the recession.
Plants produce all sorts of interesting chemicals -- caffeine , nicotine , capsicum , the tropane alkaloids , etc . Most of the time , these chemicals are there to discourage or kill insects and animals that eat them . Capiscum is an irritant -- most animals , when faced with something that burns when they eat it , are smart enough to stop eating it . Humans , on the other hand , keep eating the plants that hurt their mouths , and think that the hurting stops when the food passes into the part of their body managed by the Autonomic Nervous System -- the nerves that do stuff without you needing to think about it . Imagine the surprise of these poor humans when they discover that their rectum is * not * the responsibility of the ANS , and that capsicum does not break down during digestion . [ Cue musical outro . ] ( URL_0 )
It is a nuclear war among allies of nations . the threat of nuclear war still exists today , with a number of countries possessing the capability of deploying such destructive devices . In addition to threats from the explosion and radiation , there are also indirect effects such as contaminated food and water supplies , poor air quality , destruction of power grids affecting communication and transportation , and nuclear winter . It ’s been theorized that detonating nuclear weapons will cause large amounts of smoke , soot and debris to enter Earth ’s stratosphere , reducing sunlight for months or even years . Such a nuclear winter would result in severe cold temperatures and interference in food production . In 2007 , scientists Brian Toon and Alan Robock concluded that if India and Pakistan were to launch 50 nuclear weapons at each other , the entire planet could experience 10 years of smoke clouds and a three - year temperature drop .
To add that fantastic description by /u / PubicHair_Salesman , many of the new Li - Ion battery packs are equipped with not only protection circuits but also a simple micro - controller that handles charging , discharging , and battery level signaling . Li - Ion batteries have a ton of energy stored in them and if not properly controlled at all stages they can easily catch fire or even blow up .
To expand a little , since people talk a lot about computers working in binary , but not as much on how it all works together . A CPU has an instruction set , which is basically an extremely basic set of commands that the CPU understands directly . Without going into the details , they can be summed up as : * Data / memory manipulation - Read / write between memory and registers ( Registers are basically memory in the CPU ) * Arithmetic , Logic and Compare - The four basic math operations , logic operations , and comparing two values * Control flow - Branching ( if then ) There 's more to it than the above , and I 'm sure there 's many specialized instructions , but those are the basics of how a CPU does what it needs to do . Using those things mentioned , with enough instructions , you can arrive at the things modern computers are capable of doing . To give a very basic example of how this might work , let 's say I want to test if 3 + 4 < 5 . Here 's a simplified version of what it might look like for the CPU : * Read 3 from memory and load it into CPU register 1 ( R1 ) * Read 4 from memory and load it into R2 * Add R1 and R2 together and put it in R3 * Read 5
There are two types of mass , which as far as we know turn out , for reasons unknown , to be exactly the same : - Gravitational mass is the quantity that determines how much gravity something has . According to general relativity , gravity is caused by objects trying to take the shortest possible path through spacetime : if their route through spacetime is bent , their path is altered , and we observe that as gravity . The more massive something is , the more it bends spacetime , and so the more gravity it exerts . Objects with no mass do n't bend spacetime , and so do n't gravitationally attract other objects ( although they can be attracted by objects with mass ) . ( edit - correction : objects with no rest mass still bend spacetime because they have energy ) - Inertial mass is the measure of how resistant an object is to acceleration . Heavier objects require more energy to accelerate to the same speed than a lighter object would . In a vacuum , massless objects travel at the speed of light without any force acting on them ( although it 's possible for objects with mass to travel faster than massless objects in certain mediums ) . There 's no known fundamental reason why these two masses end up being the same thing , as they 're two entirely different concepts . However , the fact that they are the
The light comes directly from the material which is a semiconductor . inside this semiconductor there are two sides , one with lots of free electrons the other with holes where electrons fit ! If you connect this two sides to a battery electrons start to flow and the magic starts . First you take into account that electrons need energy to move , like everything needs energy to perform motion , then you can think of the atom shells where the electrons sit . You could imagine atoms have stairs and electrons sitting on the lowest steps from the ground up , if you elevate the highest sitting electron to the step above it , you need to push it up ( energy from battery ) but the electron does n't like to sit on a higher step with a gap in between it and the next lower one ! so it false down to it 's original place . And exactly when it falls down it releases it 's additional energy , which it got from the battery or whatever current source , in form of light ( a photon is emitted due to electron - hole recombination ) this happens all the time with multiple electrons and therefor the LED shines . I hope this is readable , I made this post from my phone :-)
In mathematics, a Markov decision process (MDP) is a discrete-time stochastic control process. It provides a mathematical framework for modeling decision making in situations where outcomes are partly random and partly under the control of a decision maker. MDPs are useful for studying optimization problems solved via dynamic programming. MDPs were known at least as early as the 1950s; a core body of research on Markov decision processes resulted from Ronald Howard's 1960 book, Dynamic Programming and Markov Processes. They are used in many disciplines, including robotics, automatic control, economics and manufacturing. The name of MDPs comes from the Russian mathematician Andrey Markov as they are an extension of Markov chains. At each time step, the process is in some state s {\displaystyle s} , and the decision maker may choose any action a {\displaystyle a} that is available in state s {\displaystyle s} . The process responds at the next time step by randomly moving into a new state s ′ {\displaystyle s'} , and giving the decision maker a corresponding reward R a ( s , s ′ ) {\displaystyle R_{a}(s,s')} . The probability that the process moves into its new state s ′ {\displaystyle s'} is influenced by the chosen action. Specifically, it is given by the state transition function P a ( s , s ′ ) {\displaystyle P_{a}(s,s')} . Thus, the next state s ′ {\displaystyle s'} depends on the current state s {\displaystyle s} and the decision maker's action a {\displaystyle a} . But
Here 's an example : you have a personal blog that gets little traffic so you decide to host on your own server at home , which is basically a computer that has been configured to serve your website 's content whenever someone types URL_0 in their browser - simple , basic stuff . This would mean that if you were to shut down that computer ( say the electricity went out ) then people who tried to reach your blog actually could n't because the server is down - i.e. the only source that stores your blog 's content and serves it to your visitors is momentarily shut down . Cloud computing is basically this : someone / some company set up many many servers somewhere in the world . When I say servers , think single computers that are setup to serve online content ( web , pictures , etc . ) If you host your blog there , all its content is stored on several machines in that " cloud computing " center and if one of those machines goes down , another will immediately replace it to serve your content . You might ask " what if they all go down ? " Well , Amazon cloud services ( one of the biggest ones ) is said to have 500.000 computers in total and they are located in several places ( but mostly in Virginia I think ) So the chances of every single machine going
Your premise is somewhat flawed ; it is not necessarily more expensive to eat healthy . It certainly * can * be , if you buy certain types of raw ingredients , but does not have to be . Industrial scale food processing is extremely efficient , so a lot of prepared food is cheaper than the make - it - yourself equivalent ... so if you try to eat the same stuff as just build your own , it usually does n't work out . However , if you adjust how you cook and eat ( stay in season , stay local , stay low on the food chain ) it 's fine .
Hi, This rash seems to be intertrigo. It is inflammation of the body folds due to constant friction and moisture at these sites. I would recommend you to keep the area dry and clean, wear cotton underwear and use talcum powder on the affected area. Also apply Cortisone cream on the affected area twice daily for a few days. This will help in resolving the rash. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.
Bob Dylan has been a heavy smoker since he was probably in his early teens , and he still smokes today . Now that being said , just because his voice has changed , does n't mean it still is nt * * fucking awesome * * . If you do nt believe me , listen to his new [ single ] ( URL_0 ) .
It is n't universally used - infact its significance has been infladed by pseudo - scientists and armchair mathmaticians for the past couple decades . * Fibonacci came up with the sequence for a model of rabit reproductions and it does n't even work . * People associate the sequence by applying it to quadrature and getting a spiral . This is clearly nothing surprising depending on how the structure is developed * There is some relation to /phi in the limit of the ratios of elements of the sequence * Phi is n't really that interesting anyways , it is literatally the ratio ( 1+sqrt(5))/2 , i.e. defined by people . The cool constant is e as it is analytic and defined by it 's taylor series . One last point that bugs me : Some comments suggest " we do n't know why " the sequence appears so often in nature . Firstly , it does n't really . Secondly , the fibonicci sequence is just the some of the two previous terms . Obviously we would n't be surprised to observe a similar sequence in things that grow or populate . Thirdly , nobody really cares - imagine a mathmatician writing a grant proposal for a silly 300 year old sequence . The whole buzz about it is just a platitude . Here 's a good page about all the BS URL_0
There 's an interesting line of evidence that folks who crunch a lot of data have discovered in their research that applies to a whole host of things from internet dating profiles to movies and automobiles ; if you want to market something to as many people as possible you ca n't be too eccentric . When people have a large number of choices they want to narrow it down , so they 'll use the tiniest things as a reason to discard a choice ; the last thing you want to do is give anyone a reason to discard your option offhand , and anything that really stands out could be that reason . The investment of capital in producing a new vehicle for market is much higher now than it was in the past , as is evidenced by the relatively small number of automobile manufacturers now as compared to 40 years ago , and every model they turn out has to be a hit or they 'll suffer a huge loss . Thus only the companies that focus exclusively on limited clienteles , Bentley , Ferrari and so on , can afford to get away with a really crazy car anymore .
There 's a difference between what most consumers would consider " fresh " and the legal constraints within which orange juice manufacturers get to call their orange juice " fresh . " The process of extracting and preserving orange juice ( primarily to mitigate the effects of oxidation ) removes the flavor , so flavor and aroma needs to be added back manually at the end of the process . What you 're tasting is a function of the recipe of tastes and smells they inject into the processed " juice " , not a function of what any of the individual oranges that contributed to what you are drinking tasted like when they were plucked from their trees . URL_0
When the stock markets were formed there were no computers , and information took a relatively long amount of time to get around . Most stock exchanges were limited to one country because of technical limitations : infrastructure , currency , and language barriers . Although , now there is no reason to have more than 1 market , these markets exist because of historical familiarity , local dominance , and economic incentive to keep them operating . Note - Although most amateur investors can not trade in all stock markets due to ignorance of foreign business ( also language and currency barriers ) the markets are connected . Essentially , this creates one large , though cumbersome , market .
Well , their website URL is URL_0 , which says a lot about them . The group is built on hatred and bigotry . Being very far - right ' Christians ' ( despite the whole Jesus forgiving everyone and reaching out to minorities and ' sinners ' thing ) , they hate gays and oppose gay rights , seeing it as destroying the country- ' America is doomed ' is one of their favorite picket lines . They also hate Israel and Jews as they blame them for not accepting Jesus and supposedly killing him . They hate the army and protest at funerals of dead soldiers . Their inflammatory comments on homosexuality , Jews and social issues like abortion makes them hated by everyone- I heard that Canada has banned them from entering the country .
Everything has a " life " . Some things have a " shelf life " . Some things have a " half life " . Think of your body like the energizer bunny . * * NO BATTERY LASTS LONGER * * , but even that battery will stop going , right ? The bunny will bang the drums furiously , and then a little slower , and then a little slower . As it dies it will do a comical slow motion beat accompanied by the slow unwinding sound of the gears going still . Your body will not stop like an automaton , but think of your heart like a battery ; it , too , will slow down one day , and stop . Right now you are five , and you can beat the drums * furiously * . I am five and thirty , and my arms have slowed . Your grandpa moves slower still , and one day , all our battery will die , and our gears will stop , and we , too , will die . * * TL;DR :* * Natural causes is the energizer bunny ; now go outside and play .
I could do what everyone else did and explain primary and secondary structure and stuff , but then I realized this was ELI5 , so I 'll be simple . Let 's say you have a string of thread . That thread is pretty much just that for now - a thread . We 'll call that the primary structure . Now , if you manage to arrange the thread in * just * the right way , you'l have a piece of fabric . Neat ! This piece of fabric is the secondary structure . Now , if we get that fabric , we can connect certain threads in just the right way to create a shirt ! We 'll call that tertiary structure . And finally , we 'll add some pants and a singlet to get a full set of clothes ! And that 's the quaternary structure . So , on the first level , you 're not going to have any bonding whatsoever - just the polypeptide that codes the protein , in a string form . On the second level , though , the polypeptide will interact with itself somewhat to create a 2 - D structure . And on the third level , the polypeptide fabric will interact with itself more strongly to form a three - dimensional structure . And finally , on the fourth level , the protein created will bind with other proteins to create a unique structure !
To simplify a lot : The prequel trilogy shows the transition of the government of the galaxy from republic to empire , all thanks to Palpatine / Darth Sidious . The republic is initially governed by a senate , and Palpatine is just one senator . But he wants more and he has a plan . As Darth Sidious , he 's manipulating the Trade Federation ( those guys with the army of idiotic robots ) so that they threaten peace and order in the republic . This scares the senate and pushes them to elect Palpatine supreme chancelor , and give him more and more special powers , supposedly as a temporary measure to resolve the crisis . He 'll never give these powers back , and will instead turn the republic into an empire . In short Palpatine created a disturbance with the Trade Federation , then crushed that disturbance in the name of the republic , whose senate granted him extra powers that will eventually make him emperor . That 's the crux of it . Politically , everything else is accessory to that . For example the council ( I suppose you mean the Jedi high council ) felt it coming but failed to prevent anything . As defenders of the republic , they were in Palpatine 's way to power , so he destroyed the Jedi order .
First and foremost : Understand how they change interest . Most credit cards have a grace period after each purchase to pay it off without incurring interest charges . It 's usually in the neighborhood of 25 days . This is from the date of * purchase * not your billing day . If you buy something on September 1st , get a bill on September 20th , and pay it on the 26th , you 're going to get charged based on your APR is on the purchase ( and for the entire time , just just since the end of the grace period ) . APR is a bit complicated , but it basically determines how much you 'll pay in interest on a purchase once the grace period expires . It 's not a straight - up charge , but instead they determine a daily rate based on your annual rate and charge interest per day . The easiest way to visualize it and get an idea is to play around with a few numbers and see how it ends up . There 's a calculator [ here ] ( URL_0 ) ( Put 0 for extra cost ) . If you 're new to credit , you 'll probably get an APR in the 15 % range . 9 % is incredibly good for new credit folks and with perfect credit and payment history you can usually snag APRs as low as 3 % or so
* USA : Menchie 's ; South Africa : Wakaberry * UK : Marks & Spencer ; South Africa : Woolworths A lot of thought goes into naming brands . There are marketing agencies who actually sell names to businesses ! I believe , then , that products get different names in different territories for a vast number of reasons . In the Menchie 's example above , I would say the name Menchie 's would n't make the least bit of sense to South Africans , because Menchie is n't a name that exists here . " Wakaberry " sounds funky and healthy , which ticks a lot of boxes for people here .
I 've seen the causes taught to ninth graders as the four MAIN causes of World War I : * * M -- Militarization * * The Great Powers in Europe had massive standing armies that were larger and far better equipped than ever before in history . New technology made weapons deadlier and easier to manufacture in large numbers . Europe was trapped in an arms race , because no country wanted to have a smaller / weaker military than their neighbors , but the acquisition of more arms / soldiers made others invest more heavily in as well . * * A -- Alliances * * Europe had a long tradition of frequent warfare between countries , like one every few years or so . They were mostly small - scale , and active campaigns lasted only part of the year . European leaders believed peace was best maintained by balancing the Great Powers , so no one alliance got too powerful . But the definition of " powerful " changed easily and frequently , so the alliances shifted a lot . This was good in the short term at preventing war , but it led to a really complex web of alliances , secret pacts , and betrayals . Honestly , if you watch a reality show like * Survivor * or * Big Brother * you can get a reasonably good feel of how complex and unstable a " balance of power " system can be
I 'm not sure anybody has really answered your first question . Essentially , nukes are electrically detonated . So it 's possible to rig up any kind of device to trigger the detonators , depending on what you want to achieve . Some nukes , like ICBM warheads , are intended for air bursts . These warheads might have a fusing device that depends on re - entry deceleration to arm them , then a pressure switch or altitude determining radar to detonate them at the right altitude . An an impact detonator might function as a fail safe , in case the altitude detonator does not go off . Nukes that are intended to be used against subsurface bunkers might have an impact detonator , or might use the impact to arm the bomb , with a timer to detonate it after it came to rest deep in the ground . On modern nukes , the arming process might include filling a cavity in the primary with a pre - set amount of tritium , then activating a solid state neutron generator , then triggering the explosives that cause the implosion . As I understand it , by varying the amount of tritium in the core and the neutron flow from the generator , the bomb yield can be changed ( dial - a - nuke ) . Once the explosives are detonated , the process is pretty much automatic at that point . Typically , modern nukes
The needle can move in two dimensions that are 90 ° apart so that they do n't interfere with each other . One channel of sound is encoded in how far " north and south " the groove is , and the other is in how far " east and west " it is . In principle , you could make one of the dimensions ( N and S ) up and down into the vinyl , and the other one ( e and w ) left and right along the groove at the same depth . So , one way to encode two channels of sound would be to have sound for the left speaker dig into the vinyl at different depths , and the other side move the needle left and right . When the machine reads the record later , it knows where the needle is in both of the two dimensions at each point in time , so it can play two independent channels . The directions here are at a 45 ° angle instead because it turns out horizontal and vertical grooves behave differently . So one dimension goes from ( Up , Left ) to ( down , Right ) , and the other dimension goes from ( Up , Right ) to ( Down , Left ) . The needle is connected to two ... pistons , basically , that are set 90 ° from each other ( 45 each from the surface
a ) When it 's dark you have reduced vision of your surrounding b ) When you are alone you do n't have a group around you to connect with or to feel secured with Those two things make you feel more vulnerable . We tend to want to connect with people because we have greater chance of survival in a group than alone and we want to connect with others and be accepted and liked etc . The reason why we can feel anxiety giving a speech is because we might embarrass ourselves and therefore not liked by the group etc . We feel anxiety and fear because it protects us . If there 's a danger your body tells you to flight or fight . So those feelings make us realize that we need to do something . So when you feel alone and it 's dark , you feel more vulnerable . The fear you then feel triggers the anxiety/ fear/ paranoid phenomena , either memories , or stronger feelings or potential perceived threats ( future threats ) etc . Have a look at " sleep paralysis " and the theory behind it , it also works on the vulnerability and the perceived threat of something supernatural .
Inflation is the rise in the price of goods and services . Why does it happen ? There are many reasons . One is an increase in money supply . As a gov't prints more money , it 's value decreases because there is more of it . Another reason is consumer demand while maintaining scarcity . If the market wants to purchase 1000 widgets today and there are only 500 widgets available for purchase , the price will rise until the market says it only demands 500 widgets . It 's inevitable . Why ? It 's a result of any economy . Goods are being produced . Services are being rendered . Currency is being exchanged . But , it 's important when discussing economics to think about scale . In the short term prices rise as demand rises and/or money is printed . In the long term the market should adjust evening things out . For example , when DVD players first came out they were very expensive . There were n't many companies making them and DVD 's were expensive . As the market starting heating up ( more demand ) more and more companies started making DVD players . And they started making them more efficiently . So , supply started going up . DVD players were n't scarce anymore . I do n't think currency values could ever be stagnant . Currency is just a commodity . You exchange it for goods and services
Depending on the food group and some other factors , this is governed by either the USDA or the FDA . The manufacturer indicates the category they believe that food / drink / etc falls into and if the government agrees , they use the standard serving size for that category . There 's some leeway though . For example , cookies have a reference amount customarily consumed ( RACC ) of 30 g , and the manufacturer could round to the nearest number of whole cookies as long as they still indicate number of grams and such . AFAIK the reference categories and amounts are still based on surveys from 1978 and 1988 , because those were the last two surveys before the USDA helped implement the whole serving size practice in the early 90 's . They 're a compromise made by whatever task force was in charge between the amount the average American at the time ( over 4 ) actually ate in one sitting , and the amount they * should * eat . They started updating the values a little more than 10 years ago , idk how far along they are .
Essentially Flash is a product , whereas HTML5 is an open standard agreed upon by the internet 's " governing body " . Flash is a separate program that is run embedded within the browser , whereas HTML5 is a new version of the HTML markup language used to lay out web pages that is simply rendered by the browser natively . HTML5 is a W3C standard ( it is defined by the World - Wide - Web Committee , a group that defines common standards for Internet protocols and technologies ) whereas Flash is a proprietary product , owned by Adobe . IMO ( as a Solution Architect - a person who designs large scale software systems ) and former software engineer and web developer HTML5 is far superior . The open standard thing is important as it means that all vendors * should * implement the way they render it in the same way as opposed to Flash which requires you to download and keep updated an extra program as well as your browser . HTML5 is very capable in terms of animation and etc which * used to * require Flash ( or Microsoft Silverlight , a similar product ) and performs better in every case I have seen , although as it has only just been ratified as a standard I have n't yet seen any HTML5 games , for example . I 'm sure they 're out there though !
A DDoS attack can not be prevented , the effects can be lessened . There are firewall rules that can be enabled to trigger , such as blocking an attacker that has attempted communicate with the website multiple times within a short period of time , e.g. 20 connections in 5 seconds , but this can affect legit traffic such as people spamming refresh on the browser . There are other technologies , such as packet inspection that help identify attackers , but come at the cost of bandwidth . Best thing is shutting down and letting the attackers move on .
* Even though about 75 % of Russia 's land is in Asia , only 22 % of the population lives there . 77 % of Russians live in the European part of Russia ( using the Ural mountains to separate Europe from Asia . ) * Russians from the Asian part of Russia look pretty Asian . * Most importantly , race is an arbitrary concept .
Ok , this is n't easy to answer , because we have many states in our country , and they all have laws that can be slightly different . So the answer is going to have to be general , and you 're going to have to realize that in one place it may be different than another . The way a citizens arrest works is that you , as a good person , see someone else being bad . So you tell them " You are under arrest ! ! " in your best big - boy voice , and then you call 9 - 1 - 1 and the police come to take them away . Now there are a few things to have to do to make sure you do this right . First off , you have to SEE the person do the bad thing . You ca n't be told by someone else and then go grab the person . This is called " Witnessing the crime . " Second , the bad thing they do has to be what 's called a " felony . " Now , there are two types of crimes in our county , Misdemeanors and Felonies . Misdemeanors are the little crimes , like slapping someone or stealing candy from a store . Felonies are the big crimes , like really hurting someone on purpose , or robbing a bank . So if you see someone doing something wrong
* * Like . You . Are . Five * * ( or at most 12 ) Servers are computers -just like the one you are using now . In fact your computer could be a server if you set it up the right way . Right now , your computer is asking for web pages and pictures and videos . There are other computers out there that hold all that stuff and send it to you when you ask for it .
[ Data corruption ] ( URL_0 ) happens when something goes wrong and the machine accidentally writes the wrong data , or overwrites the wrong part of the data , or deletes something that should n't have been deleted . This could be as simple as putting a 1 where a 0 should be , or it could be much more complex . Sometimes the machine can figure out what went wrong with the data and can correct it , but if it ca n't , the file can be unrecoverable .
In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality. It solves a problem by having a population of candidate solutions, here dubbed particles, and moving these particles around in the search-space according to simple mathematical formula over the particle's position and velocity. Each particle's movement is influenced by its local best known position, but is also guided toward the best known positions in the search-space, which are updated as better positions are found by other particles. This is expected to move the swarm toward the best solutions. PSO is originally attributed to Kennedy, Eberhart and Shi and was first intended for simulating social behaviour, as a stylized representation of the movement of organisms in a bird flock or fish school. The algorithm was simplified and it was observed to be performing optimization. The book by Kennedy and Eberhart describes many philosophical aspects of PSO and swarm intelligence. An extensive survey of PSO applications is made by Poli. Recently, a comprehensive review on theoretical and experimental works on PSO has been published by Bonyadi and Michalewicz. PSO is a metaheuristic as it makes few or no assumptions about the problem being optimized and can search very large spaces of candidate solutions. Also, PSO does not use the gradient of the problem being optimized, which means PSO does not require that the optimization problem be differentiable as is required by
The premise of the movie is that you can get all parts of your brain doing the SAME THING at one time , and therefore the concentration of power can do more stuff . But the brain is like a car . Different parts do different things . You ca n't get the whole car to go incredibly fast by making the seats and the rear view mirrors to help make it go faster . They just do n't do the fast .
The share-price weighting of the DJIA is a historical artifact. The DJIA remains share-price weighted today because that's the way it has always been done, and we're talking about an index with more than a hundred years' history. The DJIA was first calculated on May 26, 1896. Perhaps, back then, price-weighting was the most straight-forward & feasible way to calculate it each day. You're right that it doesn't make a lot of sense, and that's why the S&P500 and other indexes are better barometers.
Person from Balkans here , which is the regions with most gypsies in Europe . They call themselves many names , mostly Romani and Egyptians , but they actually come from India . because they find the term " gyspy " to be offensive , but we still call them that .They are nomadic people , meaning that they have no permanent home , they move every now and then to a new country . They are very poor , and most often live off by begging on the streets or doing criminal activities , which involve : scavenging metals , pick pocketing , and selling stolen goods . They speak their own language , they do n't try to assimilate into the society , they do n't go to schools , have jobs or anything other . Their means of transporations are horses . They are also the only brown - skinned people in this part of Europe , no other visible minorities .
They can be used either way in most contexts nowadays . Essentially it comes down to prestige . University sounds more formal , usually denotes more programs , more opportunities , and a more full school environment . College may give off the idea of fewer study programs , smaller numbers of courses available , and just gives off less of a formal air . tl;dr - Not much of a difference really , just implied differences . For a smarter explanation : URL_0
Fundamentals: Then remember that you want to put 20% or more down in cash, to avoid PMI, and recalculate with thatmajor chunk taken out of your savings. Many banks offer calculators on their websites that can help you run these numbers and figure out how much house a given mortgage can pay for. Remember that the old advice that you should buy the largest house you can afford, or the newer advice about "starter homes", are both questionable in the current market. =========================== Added: If you're willing to settle for a rule-of-thumb first-approximation ballpark estimate: Maximum mortgage payment: Rule of 28. Your monthly mortgage payment should not exceed 28 percent of your gross monthly income (your income before taxes are taken out). Maximum housing cost: Rule of 32. Your total housing payments (including the mortgage, homeowner’s insurance, and private mortgage insurance [PMI], association fees, and property taxes) should not exceed 32 percent of your gross monthly income. Maximum Total Debt Service: Rule of 40. Your total debt payments, including your housing payment, your auto loan or student loan payments, and minimum credit card payments should not exceed 40 percent of your gross monthly income. As I said, many banks offer web-based tools that will run these numbers for you. These are rules that the lending industy uses for a quick initial screen of an application. They do not guarantee that you in particular can afford that large a loan, just that it isn't so bad that they won't even look
I wet my face with warm water and do n't dry it for a minute . When it 's still somewhat wet , I apply shaving cream and let that sit for about 30 seconds to a minute . Then I shave . If I shave after a shower , I feel the same , but you always risk the cuts bleeding afterwards . You use after shave , but it will still trickle out , at least for me , which I can deal with if I 'm not going somewhere so I can around with tissue on my face to stop it , but if I do it before a shower , it tends to just wash off in the shower and not bleed afterwards . After the shower , I apply after shave .
many aspects of this have been covered so i will focus on the biological aspect . when someone is cut , it hurts but once the pain gets to the brain the brain does n't really need to be constantly reminded of it it ca n't tell the pain neurons to STFU so instead it releases endorphins ( endorphin btw is short for " endogenous morphine " it 's basically morphine the body makes naturally ) this dull the pain ... but like morphine it can be addictive . the rush of pain is followed by the soothing morphine which calms their mind . people with stress in their lives for which they know no other release may seek drugs which calm their mind and let them forget about their pains , cutting is a way to get those drugs for free . the action becomes not unlike smoking , a ritual action that can help clear your mind , with an addictive psychoagent that gets progressively less effective the more it 's used but makes you more dependent the more it 's used .
Whoever carries out the assassination of Kim Jong Un has this to look forward to : - A death sentence . - A death sentence being placed on several generations of their family , and * possibly * other relations ( such as known friends or their entire hometown ) . - No certainty that it would change anything at all .
I encourage you to work on critical thinking with regards to the media . This is not criticism of you , not at all , but when you can listen to Fox News and _ hear _ what they 're doing that people criticize , you will become far more able to make your own independent decision than like 85 - 90 percent of Americans - and it 's a skill that applies to all media outlets . Fox News ( and to a lesser but very real extent MSNBC ) are great places to practice this . Here 's an example : Say that Obama went to a United Nations conference and played a game of golf with David Cameron ( the conservative prime minister of the UK ) while the conference was out of session . These are the facts . _ how _ the facts are presented is mostly where people get upset about media slant . A middling pro - Obama headline ( like one might see on MSNBC ) might say , " Obama reaches across the aisle to demonstrate goodwill to foreign conservative UK Prime Minister David Cameron " a more extreme anti - Obama headline ( like one might see on Fox News ) might say , " Obama leaves United Nations conference ; spends thousands of dollars to waste time with David Cameron instead of focusing on domestic problems " Each of these are _ presuming something _ on the facts .
Remember that it could also be argued that the Roman empire did n't actually fall until the sack of Byzantium in the 1200 's or even the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire at the end of the 30 years war in the 1800 's . When we talk about the fall of the Roman empire we generally mean the western empire but people forget about the east .
Almost , but not quite . It 's the difference between milk and cream . Very similar , but I do n't recommend using cream on your cereal . * * TLDR :* * Unix is not free , can not be modified , is very powerful , but can only run on specific hardware under specific circumstances . Linux is free , anyone can muck around with it , is extremely flexible and can run on anything with a processor , but is n't quite as popular in large scale operations ( not that Linux is rapidly becoming a lot more popular in high - end server farms ) . Both have similar structures and commands since Linux was created to be like unix in as many things as possible , only free and able to run on home computers . * * NOT TLDR :* * Unix is closed - source , meaning in order to use it you need to pay a fee to licence it . It is less flexible than Linux and will not run on as many differenc CPU architectures and machinery that Linux can run on . Unix can support a more limited number of different file system structures while Linux is more forgiving and supports a number more of these systems . Linux is open source , free for anyone to use and modify , is more flexible , and is easier to install and set up pretty much anywhere on anything
What , [ this guy ] ( URL_1 ) ? It 's a very , very old joke , more or less . There were popular plays in the late 19th century , " melodramas " , where a poor , helpless woman needs saving by a virtuous young man from a comically evil , rich(twirling moustaches shows off your rings ) aristocrats ( tophat , monocle ) . Later , they made movies with similar themes ( eg . [ Perils of Pauline ] ( URL_0 ) ) and then parodies ( see : [ Duddley Do - Right ] ( URL_2 ) ) Nowadays it 's used for comedy only .
You know how a motor uses electricity to turn something ? Generators work like that , but in reverse . They take something spinning and turn that into electricity . In cars and generators ( the type you probably would have seen ) they use a combustion engine to do the spinning . In a powerplant they use a steam turbine .
My feet hang off of my bed all the time . I also have a lot of really short friends , so when I hug them their faces are literally under my chest . T - shirts suck too . Medium is tight on me but large looks like I 'm wearing a sack that hangs far below my waist .
My time to shine . Bear with me as i 'm on my phone and have nothing to reference . Basically , Donnie goes sleepwalking . While he s out , a plane engine falls into his room . He meets a giant rabbit named Frank that tells him when the world will end . ( The " world ending " is important , as it 's subjective . I.e. Donnies world will end ) So for the next month , Donnie does things in his sleep or a somewhat possessed state as he tries to make everything right before the world ends . He has sex , exposes Footlooses child porn ring and does other things he needs to facilitate that ( flooding the school to walk Gretchen home , etc ) . The thing that s not explained is the time travel . They are stuck in a looping dimension that does nt make sense . In order for it to make sense ( for the engine in Donnies room to have gotten there logically . Remember the FAA could nt figure it out ? ) , that series of events had to happen : ( reverse order from memory ) planr that the mom and sister are on , Footloose caught so crazy bitch could nt take the kids , finding the wallet , taking Gretchen to the movie , dating Gretchen , flooding the school , reading Graham Greene , etc . I m drawing a
The entire movie , Bruce wants to quit being Batman , that is his goal . However one person stands in the way of him quiting . and its not the Joker . It 's Harvey Dent . At the beginning of the movie , Bruce tells Alfred that he thinks that Dent can do a better job because he is able to put all those mobsters away , and he can do it without running around beating people up . However , the entire movie , Dent keeps on making the wrong choices , and Batman keeps trying to make Dent a better man then he is because the bat wants to retire and shack up with Rachel . Like in the scene where Dent captures one of the Joker 's men , and is about to torture him . Batman stops him saying you are better then this , you have to better . Batman wanted Dent to be Gotham 's White Knight . But then Dent became two - face , and failed irrevocably , and Batman had to let him die . He then tells Gordon to let everyone think that he committed the murder , so Dent 's reputation would n't be tarnished . Dent could still be the White Knight , but only if Batman became the Dark Knight . also : Dark Knight rises takes place eight years later , and yes many people in Gotham hate Batman for killing Dent . ELI5
As per Wikipedia of right now, here are unemployment figures for Switzerland and surrounding countries: Liechtenstein, unfortunately, does not have a large job market, given its total population of about 37,000 people. And note that the German figure of 4.5% is the lowest it has been for decades - I'd expect this number to go up and the Swiss one to stay constant. Bottom line: you will have an easier time finding a job in Switzerland. (Plus all the other good points the other answers raised: great mountains, great chocolate, low taxes, clean streets etc.)
It 's marketing . Most people * need * a faster download speed than an upload speed , so that 's how the bandwidth is allocated . If speeds were equal , * most * heavy users would be maxxing out their downloads when using torrents , Netflix , etc . , but very few would be maxxing out their upload - even typical torrent users are n't seeding 24/7 for everything they download . By giving you more download than upload , the ISPs believe they are providing the service that their customers need and want more than a 50/50 split . For the majority of broadband users , this belief is correct .
This is a super complex issue ( which is probably why you asked it on /r / ELI5 ) , and may be too complex of an explanation for ELI5 , but here goes : The best way to understand it is to look at the consequences of either avenue you choose to take ( NOTE : these are the extreme circumstances , IRL these would probably be tempered by the complexity of financial markets , gov't intervention , etc . , etc . ) 1 ) Let TBTF banks fail . Domino effect ensues per /u / Historytech 's comment , or something similar to it . There 's a huge loss in ' liquidity ' ( meaning money ca n't get to where it needs to be fast enough ) , people ca n't get loans for mortgages , companies ca n't borrow money to float through seasonal or yearly changes , economy tanks , water shortage , civil war , dictators ( just kidding about the last three :P ) . On the upside , the surviving banks will make sure to never play it ' fast and loose ' again , but that also decreases the amount of money they loan out and therefore makes it more expensive to get loans , which only adds to the current problem . In the short term , things would get Great Depression bad in large scale economic terms . In the long term ( think * decades *
They built it during low tide and calm weather . But those conditions are n't often met in this part of France which is known for its very high currents . So the construction usually lasted many years . I do n't know about La Jument ( the lighthouse in your picture ) but I can tell you about ArMen , also located in France not far from La Jument actually . It took them 14 years to built it . During the first years , they only managed to work for about 50h on it . Pic : URL_0 I think all of the isolated lighthouses in France have been automated since 1990 . And with the GPS they are n't that useful anymore . Considering the lack of maintenance and the storms they endure every winter it 's only a matter of time before they collapse :(
A carrier like UPS or FedEx only has two ways they 'll send your package : 1 . By air . This never takes more than 1 night if it 's within the U.S. All packages from anywhere in the country go to one central sorting location , everything gets sorted to the right outbound flight , then all packages get sent to their destination , and all arrive the next day . 2 . By truck . Your package is put on a truck heading towards the nearest major city to your destination , then it 's sorted again there . It takes a few days for a package to reach its destination , and it takes longer the farther you 're going . So how does 2 - day or 3 - day work ? They still send it by air , they just put your package at the end of the queue so it 's allowed to miss its flight on the first day . On the last day , it 's at the front of the queue . This helps them smooth over busy days and less - busy days .
The ISS does n't need new oxygen because oxygen is actually conserved . All they need to do is remove the CO2 in the air as described by others here . Only the oxygen that leaks out of the station needs any replacement . BTW , the Apollo air scrubbers used Lithium Hydroxide cannisters . That would n't work on the ISS since they 'd have to send lots of such cannisters up as cargo , so the ISS scrubbers use an improved method that does n't need to be restocked .
Well all these laws become REALLY obvious when you apply them to real life and not the internet . What if a new law came up such that the government no longer needed a warrant to get in your house and investigate . Not even a reasonable suspicion , they could go into your house and have access to anything and everything just because . You could just as easily say " if you did n't do anything wrong you have nothing to hide " . At the end of the day though , they 'll find your jailbroken iPhone , all of your illegal downloads , CDs / DVD you made at home , maybe you own an unregistered pet , a small quantity of recreational drugs . You have a history of fetish porn sites , that 's illegal in many states under obscenity laws . Have pictures of your children in the bath , that 's manufacturing child porn , if they 're on your computer that 's intent to distribute . Who knows , everyone has SOMETHING that 's illegal in their home , or at least a few items that in combination could be suspicious . Many household ingredients can be combined for nefarious deed . Have a costco sized bottle of ammonia , and one of bleach too close together , maybe you were trying to gas the subway system tomorrow . The point is , we have the right to privacy and protection
In addition to what has already been said , you have to also consider what defines " synced up " . Oversimplifying a bit , let 's assume that every woman in the world has an exactly 28 day cycle and bleeds for 5 days . Pick any two . There 's going to be a really good chance that at least one day will overlap .
You actually have to finish all the seasons before it makes some kind of sense . And even then , not everything makes sense . It 's very hard , borderline impossible , to explain it out of memory though ( at least for me , I have a pretty bad memory ) . Source : I finished watching all the seasons a few weeks ago .
Hello. I suggest some medicines, but please stop the consumption of Rajnigandha immediately. Do not take spicy and hot food. Take tablet Augmentin 625 (Amoxicillin and Clavulanic acid) twice daily, Zerodol SP (Aceclofenac, Paracetamol, and Serratiopeptidase) twice daily, Hexigel ointment (for topical application) all medicine for three days. If you have any drug allergy history or allergy please consult your physician before taking medicine. Follow up after three days.
" Separate but equal " was a phrase strongly associated with segregation and Jim Crow Laws during this time . People in favor of segregation justified segregation and Jim Crow Laws through saying that people of different races are fundamentally different and needed to be separated for the good of both races and asserted that segregation was not inequality but it was " separate but equal " even though it was n't equal .
It 's easy to underestimate the amount of knowledge and scientific advancement that have taken place in the last fifty years . In the movies , scientific achievements solve problems ; in the real world , they often highlight them . We got more and more information on the problems with the environment , with the political system , with poverty and class inequality , corporate greed , and all aspects of our society . And the media perpetuated the shocking and fearful in order to sell their services . We arrived at the future and saw ourselves still stuck with the same problems we 've always had , the same problems we will probably always have . So it 's easy to turn to cynicism and extrapolate that we 're hopeless and will eventually self - destruct in one way or another . I think of the situation somewhat differently ... like what happens when someone hurts themselves badly in public . They 're bleeding badly and everyone is watching , but because nobody is doing anything , nobody does anything . Until someone breaks ranks , takes off their shirt and starts applying pressure to the wound . I believe individual effort will push us towards a better future , but it 's not something that 's going to happen on its own . Anyway , TLDR ; he that increaseth knowledge , increaseth sorrow . * * Edit :* * Sorry for making the " problems with
There are several factors involved in this , such as the STD in question , the method of sex , if the giver or receiver is the one infected , whether the sex in question is heterosexual or homosexual and the genders of the participants if homosexual , if there 's any open sores or wounds , even if the guy is circumcised or not . For example , with anal sex , if the " top " is HIV negative and the " bottom " is HIV positive , the top has about a 0.11 percent chance of contracting HIV from a single encounter , which goes up to 0.62 percent if he is circumcised . EDIT : Citation : URL_0
Drivers are problematic . Companies often abandon support sooner than customers would want , which often means you 're trying to print with a print driver that was written for an OS older than your own . Try getting a 15 year old device to print from Windows 7 64 - bit , for example . Printing subsystems are notoriously finicky , and having your OS have to pretend it 's working in a 32 bit environment , or that it 's running XP adds the the likelihood of incompatibility . Extra software is even more problematic . Most consumer - grade printers come with a host of utilities , such as ink level monitors , " enhanced " printer drivers with supposedly more user - friendly output , software to help you buy ink the second you 're out , special software to compose CD labels , etc . This software is usually supported for even less a period of time than the drivers for the hardware . Hardware is problematic , particularly ink - based hardware . Ink can dry out and clog the pathways down which it travels . Hardware is cheap . Almost all inexpensive consumer - grade printers are made to sell ink , not printers . Corners are cut , and hardware is rarely made to be any more reliable than what it takes to get it beyond its manufacturer warranty . There is no business advantage in making a consumer grade printer that
Generally, ETFs work on the basis that there exists a pair of values that can be taken at any moment in time: A Net Asset Value of each share in the fund and a trading market price of each share in the fund. It may help to picture these in baskets of about 50,000 shares for the creation/redemption process. If the NAV is greater than the market price, then arbitrageurs will buy up shares at the market price and do an "in-kind" transaction that will be worth the NAV value that the arbitrageurs could turn around and sell for an immediate profit. If the market price is greater than the NAV, then the arbitrageurs will buy up the underlying securities that can be exchanged "in-kind" for shares in the fund that can then be sold on the market for an immediate profit. What is the ETF Creation/Redemption Mechanism? would be a source on this though I imagine there are others. Now, in the case of VXX, there is something to be said for how much trading is being done and what impact this can have. From a July 8, 2013 Yahoo Finance article: At big option trade in the iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures Note is looking for another jump in volatility. More than 250,000 VXX options have already traded, twice its daily average over the last month. optionMONSTER systems show that a trader bought 13,298 August 26 calls for the ask price of $0.24 in volume that was
Hamas is an Islamic fundamentalist regime that governs the Gaza strip ( one of the parts surrounding Israel which Arab Palestinians govern ) . A missile was fired which targeted Israeli civilians from within the Gaza strip . Hamas claims that rogue agents fired the missile in a unofficial capacity , however Israel has a long history of counterattacking tenfold to aggression . From a purely pragmatic standpoint , it makes sense given that much of Israel 's neighbors do n't like them being there . Sort of a , " Do n't fuck with me or you 'll be sorry " attitude . The thing is , Israel 's military is far , far stronger than any of the nations surrounding it , and its powerful bombs are killing civilians who have nothing to do with anti - Israel aggression . Overall , it 's just more of the same . When will this conflict ever end ?
1 ) It specifically prohibits medicare from negotiating discounts , so it was basically a HUGE giveaway to big pharma . 2 ) there was never even any discussion about how to pay for it . it 's one of the main sources of the current deficit . The Democrats wanted it to be paid - for in someway . 3 ) ask a senior ... it 's needlessly complicated to sign up for
There are 2 types of cell death : necrosis and apoptosis . Necrosis is un - planned cell death ( ex . burns , trauma , infection , etc ... ) . Apoptosis is programmed cell death . Cells that undergo apoptosis are engulfed by white blood cells which use special types of structures called lysosomes to break them down and recycle the nutrients . Cells that have undergone necrosis are also engulfed by white blood cells , however necrosis tends to be very wide spread and often requires surgical removal ( clinically known as debridement ) . One of the waste products from hemoglobin ( the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen ) is called bilirubin . Bilirubin is secreted in urine and feces , and is responsible for the distinctive color of urine and feces .
I 'm * * NOT * * an expert but I 'll give this a go . There are a few parts of your eye that are required to focus an image ; it 's similar to a camera . --Cameras have : 1 ) An adjustable lens that can be used to zoom in or out by moving individual lenses closer together or farther apart . 2 ) It has an aperture or shutter ; something that controls the amount of light exposure . 3 ) It has film or a pixel array ( for digital cameras ) that collects the light taken in from the lens and aperture . --The analogous parts of your eye are : 1 ) The lens which can be flexed back and forth by ciliary muscles ; these are the things that trigger pain when you try to focus on an object very close to your eye . The lens and ciliary muscles are the primary tools used by your eye to focus the light onto your retina ( the film ) . When the ciliary muscles contract or relax , they change the angle at which light hits the lens , allowing it to be focused . This depends on the distance , size of the object and angle of incoming light . Also the intraocular fluid ( the liquid that fills your eye balls and abbreviated IO ) is responsible for additional bending of the light because the refractive index between
France is the 6th largest economy ( and military ) in the world and a nuclear power . Them leaving the EU would have a much bigger impact than for example Greece leaving . Also , there is a far - right trend going on in the western hemisphere especially regarding topics like Muslim immigrants , so the world is curious to see if the EU countries will follow the footsteps of UK and USA . So far Netherlands and France seemed to prove that trend wrong .
You are used to it . You do n't notice your own breathing most the time . I had a mustache for 20 years and shaved it off . Then breathing through my nose kept me up at night because I could feel my breath on my lip . Also the Earth spins very smoothly so its like being in the back seat of a car with new tires and shocks driving down a new highway .
Your face , like every human 's , is assymetrical , meaning that it is not perfectly the same on either side .. Maybe one of your eyes is slightly higher than the other . Maybe your nose points slightly to one side . While a photo shows these differences as they would look like to another person looking at you , a mirror shows the reverse of what everyone else sees . Imagine that your reflection in the mirror is an actual person standing across from you . If your right eye is higher than your left eye , the person standing across from you in the mirror will have their left eye higher than their right eye . If your nose points a little to the right , the person in the mirror 's nose points to their left . Your right hand is the person in the mirror 's left hand . If this is hard to understand , it may help to imagine yourself looking at the person in the mirror and then turning around and standing side by side with that person . If you look straight at yourself standing next to your reflection , you will see that you do not completely match up . The reason you notice the difference between what you look like in the mirror and what you look like in a photo is that you see yourself in the mirror more often than in photos and you are more
F1 single lug systems require a high torque impact gun to take off and put on . Upwards of 2000lbft is needed . A typical lug nut only needs 90 - 95lbft . A person on side of road can apply 90 - 95 lbft with a 1 ft long lever . In order to generate enough torque for 2000lbft , you 'd need a 20 ft lever to change your spare tire . F1 lug nuts are also 1 time use . And they cost $ 20,000 each
Greenland only started being mostly independent in 2008 , when ~75 % of the population voted to reduce their dependence on Denmark . They took control of law enforcement , the justice system , coast guard , and their oil revenue was shared more equally . It 's still getting on it 's feet in some ways . And anyway , the main thing that separates a country from an autonomous region is recognition from other countries .
Pressure does n't " build up " in the hose . Without a pump or something , the pressure in the hose does n't go above the pressure of the source ( at which point the flow of water into the hose stops ) , which for most residential areas , is n't high enough to cause hoses to " explode " unless the hose is already fatigued / torn .
Villains usually have backstories , and motives , and things that they do n't like . Many villains become villains because of mistreatment in their past that resulted in them becoming jaded and vicious , which is something many can identify with . For the media that your daughter is consuming , the villains probably just look and act cooler . Most kid show protagonists are boring and one dimensional . Be real , if you were at a workplace with Scar and Simba from the Lion King , who would be the cooler dude to hang out with ? The sardonic , sarcastic , wise - cracking Scar , or the poofy , aimless and slightly arrogant Simba ? Many villains are supposed to look cool , so your daughter may identify with them
This is how I've understood this concept. Fibonacci nos/levels/ratios/%s is based on concept of sequential increment. You may find lot of info about Fibonacci on net. In stock market this concept is used to predict psychological level. While a trend is form, usually price tend to accumulate/consolidate at these level. How the percentage/ ratio make impact is - check any long trend...Now draw a fibbo retracement from immediate previous high and connect it's low. You will see new levels of intermediate trend. In broader term you will find after reversal a leg (trend) is formed, then body and then head which is smaller; then price reverses. The first leg that forms if it refuses to break 23.6% or 38.2% then the previous trend may continue. 50% is normal; usually this level is indecision phase. Even 61.8% is seen as indecision but it is crucial level as it is breakout level towards 100%. Now if the stock retraces 100% then it is sign a new big trend is forming. Now for day trader 23.6%,38.2% and 50% level are very crucial from trading purpose. This concept is so realistic that every level is considered and respected. Suppose if a candle or bar starts at 23.6% level and crosses 38.2% and directly hits 50%. Then the next bar or candle will revert and first hit 38.2% and then continue with the trend. It means price comes back, forms it area at this level and then continue whichever direction the force directs it. You
Real - world forensics can not . Even if the chamber of a gun is rifled , the machine - produced rifling will be uniform across that make and model of firearm . This means the absolute closest you could actually get even in the best case is that you know * * a * * , say , Glock 19 shot the bullet . But it could be # 1234 or # 3456 or # Cookie . And you would n't be able to determine which of those it was . But most guns , especially non - rifled firearms , do n't leave such marks . So it could be a Glock or a Remington or a Smith and Wesson .
1 ) Surgery on a baby or child is much more risky , as its much easier for them to die on the operating table . 2 ) Cost is a factor . Birth is already a pretty expensive process , and major surgery would just complicate that . 3 ) There is actually some new research that shows that the appendix might be back up storage for gut bacteria . Not critical , but not useless either .
Because many people in the US do n't think it 's fair for the insurance companies to have to compete with a government funded option that can offer insurance at very low rates . It would cause the insurance companies to lower their rates to compete and thus lose revenue and force them to lay off employees . As it stands , people under 65 who do n't have chronic conditions do n't have access to Medicare , so insurance companies do n't have to worry about their much lower rates . Any government " public option " is shot down on these grounds .
hellothank you for contacting HCM.there are no such adverse effects of whey protein supplements aparts from moderate drung interaction. are you taking any medication for asthma? if yes the you need to consult your treating doctor and tell him so that he can confirm if they are causing drug interaction. As asthma is allergy problem so i would also suggest you to rule out the cause of allergy (e.g dust, pollen, some food like egg, clothes, etc) and then prevent it. in this way the frequency of attack will decrease. hope i have cleared your query. if you need to ask anything else then you are most welcome. else you can close the thread and rate it.may you get well soon. thank you
By straining the polymer chains ( on the tensile side of bending ) you are causing the chains to increase in order and also increase in crystallinity . It is this increase in crystallinity of the polymer chains that causes the plastic to appear white ( more opaque ) . The crystallinity of the polymers scatters the light . Amorphous polymers will appear more translucent than a crystalline polymer . Crazing is a different phenomena . Crazing takes place at high strains while the increasing crystallinity takes places at comparatively low strain . [ Crystallinity in polymers ] ( URL_0 ) Source : M.S. in materials engineering and TA polymer science . EDIT ELI5 is not ask science . So start with polymer chains which you can imagine to be like long spaghetti with an aspect ration of maybe a length of 30,000 - 100,000 or more or less atoms . When they are all tangled up with no order that are amorphous . If you take an amorphous polymer and add tensile strain ( bending puts one side in tension and the other in compression ) you cause those chains to become more ordered as they tend to become more linear and organized with respect to the tensile strain . As they become more ordered the % crystallinity ( read the wiki link ) increases . This ( semi ) crystalline region scatters light more than amorphous regions so it becomes more opaque ( white ) . TL;DR The
A pyramid scheme is a business plan that involves making money by recruiting more investors and not by creating a successful product or service , or investing money well . People give you money initially , and then they get paid back with interest , either by them recruiting more people to join your scheme , or by you giving them money from other investors ( a Ponzi scheme ) . For it to work , you have to continually get more members / investors . It 's unsustainable because , well , there are only so many people in the world , and eventually there wo n't be anyone else to rope in to your plan , and all of the most recent people who invested will lose their money . That is why they are looked down upon : they can make money , but only by screwing other people out of theirs .
The x86 name refers to the original Intel 8086 processor ( which was only 16 - bit ) . It has been added to and extended over the years , and these days it tends to be used simply as a reference to 32 - bit processors and software . x64 is actually just another extension of x86 , but again it 's used as a simple reference to 64 - bit processors and software .
In real life , bombs are n't built by highly advanced engineers with nifty digital timers indicating how much time is left till they explode . Often they 're crude , unstable devices , built by angry , unstable people . In fact , most bomb makers are killed accidentally by their own devices . Because of this , the safest way to destroy them is to blow them up in a controlled environment where we can be sure that they wo n't hurt anybody .
i is the square root of -1 . an imaginary number is any real number multiplied by i. a complex number is a number that has a real number part and an imaginary number part . the two parts are usually added together so a complex number looks like this : ( A + i*B ) where A and B are real numbers and i is the square root of -1 . that 's basically all there is to it . there are lots of consequences of this of course , but that s a whole other discussion .
First , it 's not reduced to something , it is quantified from the very beginning . Answer : Because of the wave - particle duality , which are fancy words meaning " depening on how you look at it , it can be descibed as a particle or as a wave " . Why is it like this ? Because light is a [ wave packet ] ( URL_0 ) , it has a beginning and an end , but it 's still a wave . These packets are called photons and sometimes acts as a particle . If you think this is weird , then think of this : * You * can be described as a wave , but with a very small wavelength .
It 's a joke about quantum mechanics that Schrodinger made to show how crazy quantum mechanics sounds . The idea is that in quantum mechanics atoms and particles do n't actually have a state until they are " observed " . The [ famous " double - slit " experiment ] ( URL_0 ) is firing single photons ( particles of light ) through 2 thin slits . This creates a wavy pattern of light behind it , showing that single photons are waves . BUT if you put a [ photon detector in front of the slits ] ( URL_0 # With_particle_detectors_at_the_slits ) then suddenly the light stops being like a wave and acts as single particles , so stops creating wavy patterns . What 's actually happening is before the photon interacts with something the single photon is actually in every possible position ( so creates a wave ) , but as soon as it does interact with something it actually chooses a position and becomes a particle . This is also true of radioactive atoms . When an atom is radioactive that means it randomly breaks apart ( releasing energy ) . However if you took a radioactive atom and isolated it from everything then it would suddenly be both broken apart and whole at the same time ( a " [ superposition ] ( URL_1 ) " ) , and when you observed it it would then choose one or the other state . The cat
If you just changed from one to another , the dog may not eat it , especially if they have been in it for a long time . It is also a way to see if there is anything in the new food that could cause health issues with the dog . They may be allergic to an ingredient , so if you slowly transition , you have a better chance of being able to see the signs and not cause harm to your dog .
BTW , do n't use iodine or alcohol or peroxide or any of that shit to " disinfect a wound " . Think about what EMTs and doctors do . They ONLY use iodine or alcohol on unbroken skin * before * an injection or incision . They use sterile saline to irrigate a wound . They NEVER pour or wipe antiseptic into a wound . And it 's not because they have some sort of " do whatever you need , just never make it sting no matter what " mandate . Reason being , these " antiseptics " , when used inside a wound , do a lot of damage to exposed tissue , leaving dead tissue . It slows healing , increases scarring , and can * increase * the chance of infection in the long run . And for all that , it gives little guarantee of killing all " the bad stuff " . Saline irrigation is used because it simply washes away dirt and contamination without damaging the still - living tissue . There 's an odd assumption that the pain of antiseptic must give you something , because it 's such a terrible cost . The world does n't have such an innate pain = gain relationship .
Lighter skin = more vitamin D from the sun Darker skin = better protection from the sun 's harmful effects , especially the breakdown of folic acid , which is critical for pregnant women to have healthy babies Skin tone can be altered through mutations , and having the right skin tone that balances sufficient vitamin D with sufficient folic acid gives a very strong reproductive advantage ( mom has more and healthier babies ) . The amount of sun you get is directly related to how far you are from the equator , and you can see this in the skin tone of various peoples ( Indians have dark skin , Native Americans from Mexico and south have dark skin , the Irish and British have light skin , Italians have medium skin , etc . ) .
This is an opinion, but I think it has more to do with the market's uncertainty about the long-term future of the company without Steve Jobs. Apple hasn't released anything more than incremental upgrades to its existing product lines since Jobs passed, and while some people would argue about the Apple watch, Jobs played a significant role in its development prior to his death, so that doesn't really count. Whether you like or hate Apple, you had to admire Jobs' passion and creativity, and there's real question as to whether the company can sustain its dominance in the market without the Jobs vision over the long haul. My guess is that the market is leaning slightly toward the "no" column, but only ever so slightly. The company continues to deliver fantastic results, but how long will that last of their next products don't wow consumers the way previous ones have? This skepticism manifests itself in a stock that trades at a lower P/E than it deserves to, but this is just my opinion. I hope this helps. Good luck!
Singing contest arranged by the members of European Broadcasting Community ( or something like that ) . The purpose was to " unite a continent torn by war " or something like that after the WW2 and it is the longest running tv - show in the world , also being one of the most watched shows in the world . Winner is decided with votes countries give to other countries . The country that gets the most votes wins , and hosts the next years Eurovision . Votes consist of 50 % professional jury votes and 50 % popular direct voting from the people . Juries and people can not vote their own country , so they make songs that appeal to other nations . Usually this ends up the songs being kitch pop which is " safe " and pleases many people . Also extravagant and outrageous performances draw votes from other countries . Sometimes more serious songs win . Sometimes countries make really silly stupid entries , because they do n't even think it 's realistic that they 'd win . Usually countries vote each other in " blocks " , meaning cultural spheres within Europe vote each other , like Nordic countries voting each other , Baltic countries voting each other , Slavic countries voting each other and so on .
Unfortunately , there is not one concise answer . There are a combination of aspects that each could play a role . 1 ) There is a lot of variability in how much sleep an individual needs , likely somewhat genetic . Some people require very little sleep to feel rested , only 4 - 5 hrs a night . Others feel chronically tired if they do not achieve 10 hrs . And of course , it also depends on how long you have been up , how much sleep you have been getting over the last few nights , etc . 2 ) Quality of sleep changes as you age . Older individuals show decreased induction of REM sleep ( rapid eye movement ) , as well as a general trend toward less sleep . 3 ) Environmental pressure can lead to chronic sleep restriction . You know how when you set your alarm for the same time for 2 weeks straight , even if you turn off your alarm , the next day you wake up around the same time ? You might be able to go back to bed , but you have effectively " trained " your body to prepare to wake up at that time . Well , imagine if this was the case for 20 + years ! Here 's a good article for you to read : URL_0
There is a possibility of misuse. Hence it should be shared judiciously. Sharing it with large / trusted organization reduces the risk as there would be right process / controls in place. Broadly these days PAN and other details are shared for quite a few transactions, say applying for a Credit Card, Opening Bank Account, Taking a Phone connection etc. In most of the cases the application is filled out and processed by 3rd party rather than the service provider directly. Creating Fake Employee records is a possibility so is the misuse to create a fake Bank account in your name and transact in that account. Since one cannot totally avoid sharing PAN details to multiple parties... It helps to stay vigilant by monitoring the Form 26AS from the Govt website. Any large cash transactions / additional salary / or other noteworthy transactions are shown here. It would also help to monitor your CIBIL reports that show all the Credit Card and other details under your name.
Horse shoes are nailed into the hoof , which is a solid mass of fingernail like material that feels no pain . Wild horses do n't need them because they 're always on dirt or grass , soft surfaces . Working horses walk a lot more and spend time on pavement or gravel or cobblestone , which is too abrasive on their hooves without protection . Without horseshoes you risk sanding down the hooves quicker than they grow .
you'll need 25k to start or 2k in multiple accounts, that way you have access to margin, and don't have to worry about Pattern day trading limits. Be right more than you are wrong. Go up look for 3x potential up vs down risk. Compound daily. you can't double a penny every day every day for a month it becomes to difficult. but you can do 1%/day or maybe better. 2k compounded 1% every day becomes 75k at the end of a year (but you'll likely have to take weekends off, or look for other markets)
Let me give you a perspective from the service provider - I used to manage accounting of a major UK based mobile phone service provider . The customer 's information and data is segregated , and each customer is assigned a value - Low , Medium , High and Premier League ( VIP and above ) . I was able to access L , M and H but no one that I knew of could access any information on premier league customers . It was obvious that these customers were A - list celebrities , politicians and businessmen . We were told that the access to the information of these customers only lies with the head of departments and is monitored thoroughly .
Hello dearWarm welcome to Healthcaremagic.comI have evaluated your query thoroughly .* This is in relation with different issues as - dehydration following polyuria from alcoholism - in consumption with possible intake of spices with alcohol - psychosomatic manifestation of underlying stress or anxiety - others Hope this clears your doubt .Wishing you fine recovery .Welcome for any further assistance .Regards dear take care .
Hello dear,The symptoms as mentioned in your post can be due to Gastroenteritis.Management includes:1. Maintain adequate hydration by intake of fluids & ORS.2. Taking soft, plain, non spicy diet.3. Anti spasmodic for symptomatic relief.4. If bacterial infection is suspected, then antibiotics need to be taken under guidance of a Doctor.Since it has already been 3 days since you are having the symptoms, kindly consult your General Physician & start treatment accordingly.Wishing you a speedy recovery.Thanks & take care.
Senators serve six year terms , but to keep the Senate a little more stable ( and resistant to changing politics ) , the ends of terms are staggered so that a third of senators are up for election every two years . This is in contrast to the House of Representatives , which all serve two year terms up for election every other year .
Egypt is one of the oldest civilizations on the planet and we hear a lot about them and their history prior to European colonial era . We also hear a lot about the Caliphate eras of the middle ages and dark ages which controlled much of North and Central Africa , and of Carthage that was in North Africa during the Roman era . But you are correct that there is not a lot on Central and Southern Africa . That would be because most of those tribal groups did not have written language so we do not have records of their history outside of oral traditions of the groups , or records of them made by other groups . Also you talk as though slavery was something unique to Imperial Europe and the Americas . It was not . Slavery has existed as long as civilization has existed and virtually every ethnic group on the planet has owned slaves and been slaves at some point in their history .
Businesses are not taxed like individuals are . In a business if you sell something for $ 10 , but it costs you $ 9 to make , you are taxed on only the $ 1 profit , not the $ 10 revenue . Profit on financial statements , and profit on a tax return are most often not the same number . This is simply because the rules of what transactions are valid expenses and what ones are not are different . One of the big difirences are in the way stock options are treatedd A stock option is the " option " to purchase the stock in the future , at a price you set right now . The most common is the option to allow employees the ability to purchase stock ( for example ) 1 year from today , at today 's price . The implication being that if the employee works hard and does a good job , the stock will go up and the employee will make money . If the employee does shit fuck all , the stock will drop and the options will be worthless . Stock is a funny thing , Because Facebook has a pile of it 's own stock , it can just issue it to employees when they buy the options . As far as the IRS is considered , this is a valid expense and it should be removed from income . As far as Accountants are
Its called [ Tinnitus . ] ( URL_1 ) * * Causes :* * 1 . ) Ear infections 2 . ) Injuries like a direct blow to the ear or head . 3 . ) Barotrauma(Sudden increase in environmental pressure ) 4 . ) Earwax formation . * * Reason :* * " Ringing " in the ears is called tinnitus . It happens when delicate cells inside your ear that send sound messages to your brain are injured or over - stimulated . These cells have projections on them that look like hairs , and they are called " hair cells " . The perception of sound starts when pressure waves moving through the air reach your ears . This causes your eardrums to vibrate , and these movements are transferred to the fluid in the inner ear , where the hair cells are located . Movement of the inner ear 's fluid leads to bending of the tiny hairs on the hair cells . This bending excites the hair cells , and causes them to send electrical signals to your brain through a nerve called the " auditory nerve " . Your brain interprets the electrical signals from the auditory nerve as sound . The ringing sound of tinnitus is often a high squeal , like the sound of a computer monitor , but it can also be a low roar , and it can affect one or both ears . Usually your ears ring for a
Not really . The company can still sue you as protection of their intellectual property , a registered trademark just makes it easier to defend . Since the Redskins have been using their trademarks for a long time and are well - known as the owners it SHOULD be an easy win for them , though that really depends on the courts .
When something is labeled ' 0 calorie ' , it may have more than 0 calories . In the US , if something has less than 5 calories per serving , the FDA permits them to round - down to 0 . Likewise , if something has less than 0.5 grams of sugar per serving , they are allowed to round that down to 0 . So , it might be better to label it " 0 - ish calories + 0 - ish sugar " - it probably has a tiny bit of both . That said , there 's still a lot of things in that drink . Since there 's effectively no calories , you are n't getting any actual energy in it . In every 8 oz of the drink you get about as much caffeine as two cups of coffee , 100 % of your RDA of vitamins B6 and B12 , a bunch of salt , and a whole bunch of other things like inositol , L - carnitine , L - tartarate , ginseng extract , guarana seed extract , taurine , etc . some of which are mild stimulants , and all of which are innocuous in moderation . Basically , you are drinking expensive fizzy water that is dissolving your teeth ( it 's pretty acidic ) . If you drink a lot of it , you 'll probably notice symptoms of caffeine overdose before anything else . Several deaths have
The Fifth Generation Computer Systems (FGCS) was a 10-year initiative begun in 1982 by Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) to create computers using massively parallel computing and logic programming. It aimed to create an "epoch-making computer" with supercomputer-like performance and to provide a platform for future developments in artificial intelligence. FGCS was ahead of its time and a commercial failure. FGCS contributed greatly to the field of concurrent logic programming. The term "fifth generation" was intended to convey the system as being advanced. In the history of computing hardware, computers using vacuum tubes were called the first generation; transistors and diodes, the second; integrated circuits, the third; and those using microprocessors, the fourth. Whereas previous computer generations had focused on increasing the number of logic elements in a single CPU, the fifth generation, it was widely believed at the time, would instead turn to massive numbers of CPUs for added performance.
Actually , these days , Switzerland has stricter laws against moneylaundering than many other countries ( Netherlands , Delaware , Bahamas , British Islands ... ) . Read up on how Apple ( amongst others ) flees taxes - Dutch sandwich and trusts . Funnily enough , only legit trusts ( non - tax reasons / charity ) are done in Switzerland / Liechtenstein these days . We used to have accounts that were not linked to a specific person back in the day - but that is illegal now . Ps I am aware that Del is not it 's own country
The repercussions are n't political , but monetary . If a company will lose a billion dollars by having to change their methods of manufacturing , and dealing with waste , it 's a logical decision ( though immoral ) for them to instead spend a million dollars buying a politician , and another 3 million dollars on an ad campaign saying global warming is n't real . Then maybe another million on a ' study ' that proves it 's not real . 5 million dollars later , they 've saved 995 million , so this is why enough people believe it 's not a real thing to fight against having it taught . The ad campaigns focus on such things as political issues , religious issues , and often use ' common sense ' as proof , i.e. " does n't seem any hotter to me now ! " in a commercial aired in December , when random citizenry who did n't pursue a higher education , or do n't have a firm grasp of science , are likely to believe it because it seems logical . Sorry if someone else already said the same thing . Edit : I 'm trying to provide this as a less - biased response . I 'm attempting not to villainize corporations , merely making the point that they are acting logically , which is to be expected . Actions such as the above are very common , so I do
" The human nose is extremely sensitive to geosmin and is able to detect it at concentrations as low as 5 parts per trillion " - [ wiki ] ( URL_0 ) I remember reading somewhere that it was an evolutionary advantage for us when we were nomads as it helped us track fresh water and heard migrations . [ no citation as I am far too lazy ]
[ Source ] ( URL_0 ) The cup ( or shell ) amplifies the ambient noise , which is the thing you hear . Many people believe it 's an echo of your blood , this can easily be disproved . Try to exercise and put the cup to the ear . The noise is no louder , even if you hearth is beating faster .
I 'm in my 40s . Been with the same woman over a decade in a mature relationship . By that I mean there has never been a " breakup " or anything high school like that and we share house / income/ life in all manners . I have wills and poa 's that leave / give her everything I have if anything happens . We are in a life time relationship . Marriage certificate is n't needed to be happy . Marriage license does n't keep people from adultery . Marriage does n't keep people from fucking the neighbor . Marriage does n't keep people from leaving their kids . Marriage is silly . I do n't need it . She feels the same way . When me and my lifelong guy friends are sitting around with no witnesses , they ALL tell me " Do n't get married . Not worth the problems . " Now , sure you can say " Maybe they married the wrong woman " but hard to convince me that after being told that by dozens of people that EVERYONE marries the wrong girl . Given that , if I become sick or if the government has n't evolved to give rights to people like me ( those living in a marriage but minus the license ) we may do it so she can receive my SS benefits when I die . Other than that I do n't see it happening .
I recently heard an interview ( I think it was on Science Friday- I 'll look for it ) where the researcher suggested that schizophrenia may be a disorder of time perception : they are confused about the order in which event occur . This means something happens , and the patient reacts , but the patient perceives their reaction as coming before the event . The researcher thought this could explain why patient 's think they hear voices , when in reality , it is their own internal monologue they 're hearing . Edit to add : here is the link the David Eagleman on science friday . He talks about schizophrenia and the time delay URL_0
How is it possible that long term treasury bonds, which the government has never defaulted on, can hold more risk as an ETF then the stock market index? The risk from long-term bonds isn't that the government defaults, but that interest rates go up before you get paid, so investors want bonds issued more recently at higher interest rates, rather than your older bonds that pay at a lower rate (so the price for your bonds goes down). This is usually caused by higher inflation rates which reduce the value of the interest that you will be paid. Do you assume more risk investing in bond ETFs than you would investing in individual bonds? If you are choosing the right ETFs, there should be a lower amount of risk because the ETFs are taking care of the difficult work of buying a variety of bonds. Are bond ETFs an appropriate investment vehicle for risk diversification? Yes, if you are investing in bonds, exchange traded funds are an appropriate way to buy them. The markets for ETFs are usually very liquid.
Part of the fight or flight syndrome . Animals do this do -- people can also urinate or defecate in these circumstances , also like animals . Basically the body has to figure out whether the blood goes to the brain , to the large muscles , arms and legs , or to the abdomen -- specifically to digest food . In the wild , the adrenalin and stress factors are supposed to be there for a short time -- you either got away from the predator or you did n't . In humans it can go on longer . So the body basically says , I ca n't waste the blood and energy trying to digest this food -- so it gets thrown up or sometimes the stomach just dumps it out into the small intestine . The blood flow goes to the large muscles instead .
> How do they know what everything actually looked like ? That is n't the object of the game . Black and white directors knew their movies would come out in black and white , so they filmed the movie accordingly . They knew they had to use contrast rather than color to make the movie visually interesting . They knew it did n't matter if an actor 's brown shoes clashed with their black slacks . In * Psycho * , Alfred Hitchcock famously used chocolate syrup to simulate blood , because he knew he could pull it off . Recreating the colors a black and white movie was filmed with could very well wind up with a very crappy looking color movie . So in a lot of ways they original colors do n't matter , what you want to is make a black and white movie look like a color movie . Sure , you want to make sure the sky is blue and the grass is green and Rita Hayworth 's hair is red , but after that , mostly you want to make a good looking movie .
There were many settlers who died of disease . The thing is that the travel back to Europe was long enough that most lethal diseases would kill their victims before they could get back to Europe . Europeans had more open trade with other groups ( Each other , Africa , Asia , and the Middle East ) . They also lived with more domesticated animals and in closer proximity to said domesticated animals . All of that means they had more vectors for disease and thus had to have more robust immune systems to survive .
Draft up a promissory notes. Have a lawyer do it use one of those online contract places if you have simple needs. Your promissory note need to cover Be specific. There are probably a lot more items that can be included, and if a quick internet search is any indication it gets deep fast. http://lmbtfy.com/?q=car+sale+promissory+note (Like @LittleAdv says) Head to your DMV with the title and the promissory note. The title is signed over to you and held by the DMV. When you pay up, the seller informs the DMV and they send you the title. If you don't pay up, the seller can legally repossess the car. All butts are covered. Pay the note as agreed. When you are all paid up, your friend notifies the DMV who then mail you the title. Your butt is covered because your name is on the car, you can insure it and nobody can take it from you (legally) if you are paying the note as agreed. Your pal's butt is covered because if you stop paying half way through, he can keep whatever you have paid him and get his car back.
There are 100 people in the US . Every single one of them has $ 10 , so there are $ 1000 total in the US . Some of the people are farmers and decide to sell some of their milk . Everybody likes milk , so the farmers decide to sell a gallon for $ 1 . You have $ 10 and you say , " What the heck , I like milk . I 'll buy it ! " Now the US government says , " Good news , everyone ! We printed out $ 10,000 for everybody ! " Everybody in the country now has $ 10,010 . Pretend you are a farmer . Will you still sell your milk for $ 1 ? Central banks can effectively change the money supply of a country . Obviously it would n't be as drastic as my example , but the basic principle holds . Edit : Changed " world " to " US . "
Imagine there 's a giant roster of everyone who ever plays basketball , and you really enjoy playing basketball . Every time you get into a new basketball game , you 're randomly paired up with any of those people who are as good as you . The only issue is that 50 % of the people who play the game are deaf , mute , in wheelchairs , and generally do n't care if they lose the game . You have to rely on them to make every shot , as a team , and it 's very hard to get deafmutes to line up the shot . You get very frustrated , but you ca n't blame them , it 's no fault of their own they play this way . After one game , you become very upset with a handicapped player . You blame them for the game loss , telling everyone on the court how bad he is . Driving home you are sad you acted like that , but figure you lost your cool once , and it 's bound to happen to anyone . The next day you 're playing and you 've scored every basket on your team , and yet one of the handicapped players is yelling at you . Yelling to the court how much of a " faggot noob " you are . He begins to intentionally let the opposing team score . You have n't had a win
In computer science, a search algorithm is an algorithm designed to solve a search problem. Search algorithms work to retrieve information stored within particular data structure, or calculated in the search space of a problem domain, with either discrete or continuous values. algorithms are Although search engines use search algorithms, they belong to the study of information retrieval, not algorithmics. The appropriate search algorithm often depends on the data structure being searched, and may also include prior knowledge about the data. Search algorithms can be made faster or more efficient by specially constructed database structures, such as search trees, hash maps, and database indexes.[full citation needed] Search algorithms can be classified based on their mechanism of searching into three types of algorithms: linear, binary, and hashing. Linear search algorithms check every record for the one associated with a target key in a linear fashion. Binary, or half-interval, searches repeatedly target the center of the search structure and divide the search space in half. Comparison search algorithms improve on linear searching by successively eliminating records based on comparisons of the keys until the target record is found, and can be applied on data structures with a defined order. Digital search algorithms work based on the properties of digits in data structures by using numerical keys. Finally, hashing directly maps keys to records based on a hash function. Algorithms are often evaluated by their computational complexity, or maximum theoretical run time. Binary search functions, for example, have a maximum complexity of O(log
Before a lender gives you a loan , they want to know that you 'll pay them back . The way you convince them that you 'll pay them back is to have taken out previous loans and paid those back on time . But if that 's the case , how do you get the first loan ? It 's a catch 22- you ca n't get a loan unless you 've already had a loan A credit builder loan solves the loan by having you put the money aside first , into a special account where you 're not allowed to touch it . The loan company then gives you an equal amount of money back as a " loan " which you pay back . If you pay back the loan , they give you your money back and you get a mark on your credit report saying you took out and paid back a loan . If you do n't pay back the loan on time , they can take the money out of that special account to cover it so there 's no risk to them even if you do n't pay it back .
A lot of people 's employers chose or were forced to stop offering their current plan since it does not meet the standards demanded by the bill . Either that , or it was cheaper to pay the fine on not offering health care than it was to provide enough coverage to comply with the new laws . The question is whether or not it is the government 's place to decide what " sufficient coverage " is . Many people agree that individuals should have the right to choose low amounts of coverage , even if it could be financially dangerous for them at some point .
First , what kind of bank , second , what form of money ? Where do they keep cash ? In vaults at bank locations . They either get it from customers or have it delivered by cash services ( armored trucks ) . In truth , there might be a few million in cash at a branch during the day , but even all that money put together is nowhere near the bank 's real value . Most of the money that banks have is actually debt . They borrow money from bigger banks or the US Federal Reserve and loan it out at a higher interest rate than the loaner is charging . Most of the money itself is " on paper " meaning the value is theirs but they do n't have all of it in real hard cash .
Because as a woman you learn pretty quickly you 're only worth as much as your physical appearance . As someone else put it , when 99 % of the comments you get are about your look , you care a lot about your looks . So to these women , getting this type of attention is essential to their self esteem . Because they were taught that .
Scotch means whisky from Scotland . It is illegal to call it Scotch unless it was distilled and aged in Scotland . Similarly , it is illegal to call something Irish whiskey unless it was distilled and aged in Ireland . Irish whiskey is usually spelt with an " e " but Scotch whisky usually without . Bourbon must be made in the United States from a grain mixture that is at least 51 % corn and some other requirements . Triple distilled is literally that : It is distilled three times . Distillation is where you evaporate a liquid into a gas , move it to a different tank and then cool the gas so it goes back into a liquid . The purpose of this is to remove impurities ( they 're left behind when you evaporate the liquid ) and to increase the concentration of the alcohol . Single malt whiskey is made from only one particular type of grain , rather than a mixture of grains .
Well , the bird thing is mostly due to their vision The eye is an extremely complex bunch of cells , and due to it 's complexity , it needs a constant blood flow . No blood flow , dead eye cells . Dead eye cells = = loss of vision . So ... the human eye is almost completely covered in capillaries ( the tiny , tiny blood vessels that carry oxygen rich blood to the smallest places in the body ) . There is a small part of the human eye that is n't covered in blood vessels , the iris . We have a small field of focus We have binocular vision , which is great for judging distances , but when we need to focus on one thing , everything else gets out of focus . A bird 's eye is n't covered in blood vessels , so they can keep many things in focus at once . There is a little organ at the back of the bird 's eye ( the name of which I will tell you , without typing once , not checking URL_0 and know the answer instantly ) which is called the pecten , which holds all the blood required for the eye to ' live ' Birds will ' shake ' their eyes occationally to distribute this blood all over the eye . Because there are no blood vessels covering they eye , they do n't have one point
A surgeon posted a story on an askreddit somewhat recently . He said that one time a little girl was going into tonsil surgery , and the father was told not to feed her and everything . Well anyway , she regurgitated eggs about 2 minutes into surgery and they were barely able to save her life , much less complete the procedure . When the doctors informed the father of what happened , and if he had fed her within 12 hours , he said " I thought you were being too hard on her . It seemed kinda harsh " I do n't think you 're " supposed " to post anecdotes on ELI5 .... shit
Sound quality is n't a function of the distance a call needs to travel , and at any rate the cell call will be going to the tower and back to whoever you called anyway . Cell phones are not walkie - talkies . Phone calls are encoded in a way that compresses the amount of data being sent , throwing out much of the nuance of the sound while still leaving something which can be understood . This allows more calls to be carried in a given infrastructure and is backwards compatible with older , less capable technology .
As for any game you need to use the features of the graphical processing unit to implement all the visual elements . One of the major problem with consoles is that each has a proprietary architecture that you use when developing a game . For example , Play Station 3 was notorious for having 6 accessible Processing Units on a proprietary architecture that you can use only in a certain way . Writing a PS3 game for XBox implies actually writing the whole graphical part of the code again . While XBox uses a general architecture similar to normal PCs , which enables developers to release games both on PC and XBox , the rest of the consoles usually do not , which makes developing a game for different platform actually developing a separate game for each platform . It is stupid , but lack of standardization does this , and standardization is not enforced as every console manufacturer wants to differentiate itself from the competition .
Because it 's a durable good with multiple redundancies . Most people who would want an iPad already have an iPad . Those people probably also have a smartphone and a laptop , maybe a desktop computer and a game console or two , maybe a Roku , etc . Among all those devices , people would probably upgrade their phone first , their laptop second and everything else is a low priority . I 've got a family of 4 . Husband ( me ) , wife and two young kids ( 4 and 1 ) . We 've currently got 9 devices . None are the most recent releases . I have an iPhone SE and a five year old MacBook Pro laptop , plus a PS4 and PS3 game consoles . My wife has a 3 year old iMac desktop , a recently purchased iPad Air 2 and a Roku . We keep an old iPad 2 and a near worthless Kindle Fire for the kids to use on long car rides . I upgrade my phone every 3 - 5 years . I 'll buy a new game console when there are compelling games to play , but that 's generally a 5 - 7 year span . We upgrade computers every 5 - 7 years , when necessary . We 'll replace tablets when they become absolutely unusable , and even then we probably wo n't upgrade to the top of the line model .
Check your math... "two stocks, both with a P/E of 2 trading at $40 per share lets say, and one has an EPS of 5 whereas the other has an EPS of 10 is the latter a better purchase?" If a stock has P/E of 2 and price of $40 it has an EPS of $20. Not $10. Not $5.
A lien is a mechanism to impede legal title transfer of a vehicle, real property, or sometimes, expensive business equipment. That's why title companies exist - to make sure there are no liens against something before a buyer hands money to a seller. The lien can be attached to a loan, unpaid labor related to the item (a mechanic's lien) or unpaid taxes, and there are other scenarios where this could occur. The gist of all this is that the seller of the vehicle mentioned does not have clear title if there is a lien. This introduces a risk for the buyer. The buyer can pay the seller the money to cover the lien (in the case of a bank loan) but that doesn't mean the seller will actually pay off the loan (so the title is never clear!). This article recommends visiting the bank with the seller, and getting title on-the-spot. However, this isn't always an option, as a local bank branch isn't probably going to have the title document available, though the seller might be able to make some arrangement for a local branch to have the title available before a visit to pay off the loan. The low-risk approach is for the seller to have clear title before any money changes hands.
" They " did n't . Leon Lederman , a Nobel laureate and particle physicist , did , in his 1993 book * The God Particle : If the Universe Is the Answer , What Is the Question ? * And yes , the popular anecdote that he wanted to call his book * The Goddamn Particle * because of how frustrating the search for the Higgs was has a basis in truth … in that Lederman cracked that joke himself . But the real reason is much more beautiful : > This [ Higgs ] boson is so central to the state of physics today , so crucial to our final understanding of the structure of matter , yet so elusive , that I have given it a nickname : the God Particle . Why God Particle ? Two reasons . One , the publisher would n't let us call it the Goddamn Particle , though that might be a more appropriate title , given its villainous nature and the expense it is causing . And two , there is a connection , of sorts , to another book , a much older one … > At one time , many millennia ago , long before [ the book of Genesis was ] written , nature spoke but one language . Everywhere matter was the same — beautiful in its elegant , incandescent symmetry . But through the eons , it has been transformed , scattered throughout the universe
Courts have a long standing precedent to let leagues & sports organizations police themselves and for good reason . Sports are physical activities , which means people can hurt each other during the game by playing dirty . Sometimes , the only way to keep the other team from continuing to play dirty is to either openly confront or fight them or play dirty in return . You see a hockey player get hit in the nuts by a stick ... what you did n't see was the entire opposing team , for the last 40 minutes , whacking guys on the back of the calves whenever they skate past just because they can .
Alright , so you know that the DNA sequence is made up of 4 nucleotides ( A , G , C , T ) . You know that A - T pair up , and C - G pair up . Getting from DNA to proteins happens via two processes known as transcription and translation . Transcription happens when a specific sequence of DNA is taken and * transcribed * to RNA . RNA is very similar to DNA . It 's made up of 4 nucleotides ( A , G , C , U ) . Notice that there are no T 's in RNA ... they're all replaced by Uracil ( U ) . What happens is that the enzyme RNA polymerase " selects " the sequence it wants to transcribe . This part gets a little tricky to explain via text , but I 'll have a go at it : If you have a sequence of DNA , for example 5 ' -- ATGTCTCGA -- 3 ' [ Call it strand A ] 3 ' -- TACAGAGCT -- 5 ' [ Call it strand B ] You notice that the two strands are complimentary . If I want to make a copy of strand A , then all I have to do is make a compliment of strand B. That is what RNA polymerase does . If it wants to take strand A and turn it into RNA ( specifically , mRNA ) , then it
Because people stopped buying the bare - bones basic soap that could be made in the cheapest possible way while still cleaning . its like when they make a smart - phone that can deflect mosquitoes and asteroids , then you ca n't possibly only have a phone that do n't do that anymore or else you are n't competing with your peers . Its like if you made a really old car today , which you could make very very very cheaply because it has like three moving parts , no one in the rich nations would buy it . PS : The simple bar of soap is also not the cheapest possible soap there could be . And not even your potatoes are as cheap as can be , if you live in rich nations , because they throw away all the " ugly " ones and jack up the price on the rest .
Because everyone signed the International Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 . That would have to be demolished ( like leaving the UN ) to fundamentally change drug policy . So it 's more going along with the status quo than a real decision to keep drugs illegal . For example , that convention states that each signer country will have only ONE location to grow study pot . Read this and look at all the relevant agencies and oversight boards . URL_0 That right there is THOUSANDS of bureaucrats whose jobs rely on pot staying illegal . A politician would have to be dedicated to normalization to even approach it sensibly . And then they 'd have to fight conservative religious groups of every stripe . And do n't forget corruption . The mob , gangs , you name it . Any legal drug takes money out of their pockets . They pay money to politicians and civil and legal authorities to keep the pipelines open . Any official coming out for legalization will be fought by their corrupt brethren .
Fat , or adipose tissue , is an organ of the body itself , specifically an endocrine organ or hormonal organ . You have both subcutaneous ( under the skin ) fat and fat located in your body cavities such as the thorax ( chest ) or the abdomen ( stomach ) . Fat likes to deposit around the internal organs such as the heart , liver , and small intestines . Does it obscure vision ? Yes . Does it bleed ? Yes . I use a CO2 laser and cautery , so these things are manageable . I have yet to have a patient fatally hemorrhage , or " bleed out " from cutting fat . My main concern with anesthesia is it also interferes with drug metabolism , or the way a drug works in your body . The fat itself in some cases can serve as a reservoir for the anesthetic drug making it more difficult to wake you up from surgery . This get 's into the lipid pharmacology of drugs and metabolism and mechanism of actions . So for TL;DR . Fat can obscure vision . Fat can mess up your hormones and inflammatory response . Fat will complicate your anesthetic protocol .
https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2013/07/30/2-types-of-risk-2-types-of-bubbles.aspx (mirror): The Wall Street Journal reviews: What Mr. Bernstein calls "shallow risk" is a temporary drop in an asset's market price; decades ago, the great investment analyst Benjamin Graham referred to such an interim decline as "quotational loss." "Deep risk," on the other hand, is an irretrievable real loss of capital, meaning that after inflation you won't recover for decades -- if ever. So quotational loss = loss not explained by change of actual value of a firm.
So based on the quarter example here I 'll try it too . You have two quarters . I flip one , you flip one . Eventually we see that there is no correlation between which one comes up heads and which one comes up tails . No surprise . We " rub " the quarters together vigorously ( I 'll explain in a second ) and I keep one in my fist without looking at it . I pass the other to you and tell you to keep your fist closed around it . I tell you that by rubbing the quarters together I have " entangled " them . I explain to you that now that we know the quarters are entangled something " magical " is about to happen . When our quarters are entangled , if I open my fist and see that my quarter is " heads - up " in my palm , I * * immediately and definitely * * know that your quarter is also heads up . You think this is a neat parlor trick . So I step up my game and we entangle the quarters again . And again . And again . A thousand times again . As long as the quarters are entangled , when I ( or you ) open up our hands to look at the quarter , we both know immediately and definitely what the other person 's quarter is too ( heads up
Communism is , according to the original communist theorist Karl Marx , " the real movement which abolishes the present state of things " ( * The Germany Ideology * ) . In more concrete terms , communism is a movement that seeks the abolition of capitalism and class - society . Marx dedicated a significant portion of his work to describing what communism is and how it arises necessarily within capitalist society . Capitalism is , to Marx , a " mode - of - production " ( essentially ' the way production is organized within society ' ) that features generalised commodity - based production ( meaning that commodity - based production is predominant ) . Commodities are items that are both : use - values , or an item of utility for some people , and exchange - values , or an item that can be exchanged in a specific ratio for other commodities . For example : a chair is a use - value because people can sit in them ; a chair is an exchange - value because it can be exchanged in the market for other commodities like two pairs of shoes or one hundred dollars . How are the exchange - ratios of specific commodities determined -- for example , why does one chair = two pairs of shoes or ten dollars ? Marx says that exchange - values are an expression of value , and he draws the conclusion that the value
Geoffrey Everest Hinton CC FRS FRSC[11] (born 6 December 1947) is a British-Canadian cognitive psychologist and computer scientist, most noted for his work on artificial neural networks. Since 2013, he has divided his time working for Google (Google Brain) and the University of Toronto. In 2017, he co-founded and became the Chief Scientific Advisor of the Vector Institute in Toronto.[12][13] With David Rumelhart and Ronald J. Williams, Hinton was co-author of a highly cited paper published in 1986 that popularized the backpropagation algorithm for training multi-layer neural networks,[14] although they were not the first to propose the approach.[15] Hinton is viewed as a leading figure in the deep learning community.[16][17][18][19][20] The dramatic image-recognition milestone of the AlexNet designed in collaboration with his students Alex Krizhevsky[21] and Ilya Sutskever for the ImageNet challenge 2012[22] was a breakthrough in the field of computer vision.[23] Hinton received the 2018 Turing Award, together with Yoshua Bengio and Yann LeCun, for their work on deep learning.[24] They are sometimes referred to as the "Godfathers of AI" and "Godfathers of Deep Learning",[25][26] and have continued to give public talks together.[27][28]
My shot at an ELI5 . When a game is ' loading ' a level , it is loading assets from hard drive to RAM . Your computer processes information - i.e. it does work . Imagine you 're sitting at a desk , and have to sign documents - that is work . Your boss drops you one thousand documents and tells you to sign them all . The documents are in a briefcase . You open the briefcase , take a document out , close the briefcase , then take out your pen , flip it open , sign the document , then flip the pen closed , then open the other briefcase , place the document in the other briefcase , close the other briefcase . You do this for every single document . Seems inconvenient ? A much more handy way would be if you had - I dunno , a desk . Open the briefcase , put all the documents on the desk . Keep the pen open , and its cap on the desk . Keep the finished documents on the desk . No more silly busywork like opening / closing briefcases and caps - just do that when you 're done ! This is especially crucial for programs like games , that require rapid interaction . Imagine playing Call of Duty where the game locks up every 2 seconds , for 10 more seconds , to load more data . Very annoying .
They began Steam as a distribution network for their own games . The massive benefit of it at launch was being able to download your game without buying the physical copy , and patches and updates were simplified for the users to install . This was a massive step forward because valve could ensure that each user was using the same version of their game , while still being able to patch any bugs that slipped past before release . The system is excellent for developers and pretty soon they were selling other games through steam . Its steadily gained momentum over the years until its become the distribution giant we know today Source : indie game developer note : this explanation does nt cover everything , valve did a lot more than I can cover in a short paragraph on mobile so feel free to add to it guys
Unfortunately , doctors do often get ill from their patients with communicable diseases . The most serious diseases are n't often easily communicated so they are n't spread easily but stuff like colds and the flu are often passed on to doctors . Most doctors do though use fairly good hygiene and wash their hands and keep their hands away from their face . Diseases are often spread from your hand to your mouth so just keeping that from happening does a lot in limiting exposure .
Okay , imagine you are in an office and have a stack of reports stored in a filing cabinet ( the cabinet could be an object in C++ , or a struct or an array , in C / C++ ) . The reports are not allowed to leave the cabinet and go to someone 's desk due to office policy ( and for good reasons ) . So , there are two ways you could keep track of the information on the reports : First , you could make a copy of the reports and bring that back to your desk . The problem with this is if you make any changes , they are n't saved to the cabinet copy , only your local copy . Also , it 's wasteful to use so much paper and toner , and it takes time to make copies of a 400 - page report ! If you just need to look at a number or read something , or if you intend to change the file and do n't want to mess up the original , it 's perfectly fine to make a copy . If you 're not working with large amounts of data , maybe only a single variable at a time , then copying is not wasteful or a bad idea . This is what happens when you do n't use pointers . The second option is to keep track of where the files are by storing
In a sense , everyone is racist , we treat each other by linking prejudiced ideas to superficial understandings about others . We ca n't know everybody we run into and we expect people with certain appearances to act in predictable ways . Our brains are wired for this sort of thing . The problem is that these prejudices are very poor indicators of what any individual is like and may not be based on legitimate observation , but on sensationalist reports and non - representative anecdotes . If we believe that people should be allowed to achieve their fullest potential based on who they are , making decisions about an individual based on generalized if not entirely faulty information may limit that person 's potential not based on any legitimate characteristic that he or she holds , but based on our desire to simplify the world for our own comfort .
Many vegetarians choose animal - rennet - free cheese . Most types of cheese have alternatives made with vegetarian rennet . Many vegetarians do n't know what animal rennet is , so do n't know that animals are slaughtered to make the cheese they 're eating . Many of the people in said group would make alternative choices if they were aware that cheese is made from animal rennet .
Two reasons . - Cardio does n't just exercise your heart . It exercises your lungs and your muscles associated with endurance . This helps your body a LOT , doing things like assisting your metabolism to keep your weight down , adding to your bone density from the impacts , lowering your blood pressure , and increasing your stability so you wo n't fall and break a hip . - And your heart has * roughly * a billion beats , there 's no ticking countdown clock . Some people get way more , some people get way less . It 's more of a rough general observation than any sort of limiting estimate or warranty period . P.S. fit people have lower beats per minute than unfit people , offsetting the extra heartbeats that occur when they exercise anyway . * LATE EDIT : A lot of people have already pointed out that the average lifespan of a human means closer to 3 billion beats . Just pushing that up to the top for accuracy . *
Well , think about how it works the other way . Let 's say we have a guy who represents the USA to the United Arab Emirates . He kisses his wife at a restaurant . This is against the law there . It would greatly strain relations if the UAE kept him there in jail , so instead they send him back to the USA and he 's punished how the US sees fit . > Can one commit murder and still claim diplomatic immunity ? In such a situation , the diplomat 's home country would probably waive immunity and allow prosecution * or * they would be expelled from the host country and prosecuted .
In the US , the frequencies that radio stations are allowed to use are designated by the FCC ( Federal Communications Commission ) . The FCC limits FM broadcasts to the range from 87.1 MHz to 108.0 MHz . This is because frequencies outside of that range are designated to be used for other purposes . For example , the spectrum immediately below 87.1 is used for broadcasting TV channels 5 and 6 , and the spectrum immediately above 108.0 is used for aeronautical radio and navigation . [ Here 's a giant PDF ] ( URL_0 ) that shows a chart of all the spectrum allocations in the US .
HSAs are savings accounts . They usually are partnered with a high - deductible health plan , and your employer may contribute to the account as well . Your pre - tax deductions go into the account , and you can use the funds for your copays , coinsurance , glasses or contacts , some over - the - counter medicines , and such that your insurance does n't cover and you 'd usually pay for out of pocket . Since most of the money is yours anyway , the big benefit comes from its pre - tax status : the deduction is made from your gross pay before you are taxed on the remainder . So you 're saving off the top , and getting your employer 's contribution , as well . It 's a step up from the old Health Reimbursement Account , because those funds HAD to be used by the end of the year or you 'd simply lose them . The " newfangled " HSAs are different because you can keep those funds and roll them over from year to year , as a savings plan in case you have big medical expenses at some point in the future . You may be expected to provide documentation to the IRS as to your expenditures from that account , though , so save your receipts ! I only use the debit card at pharmacies or medical providers , so that all the debits are clearly
Not really . As defined on [ Wikipedia ] ( URL_0 ) if you wanted to entertain the idea of negative hue , say -60 hue , that would just bring you to 300 hue . It works like degrees of a circle . One might ask what the hue of a color that only some people or animals extra - sensitive to ultraviolet / infrared light might fit in with the average person 's perception of hue but I still do n't think that would constitute negative hue , just a recalibration of the 360 degree - style definition of hue .
All depends on how the game is programmed for the most part . There 's a few things that demand a restart like say a game had both DX10 and 12 versions then switching between is something that ca nt be done while the api is already running . Or if you have a 32 bit and 64 bit version for example . Otherwise though it 's straight up how the the game is programmed problem is though that sometimes changing some of those settings while the game is running can require jumping through some hoops code wise and often the developers take the easier route of making you restart the game instead .
A multivitamin is like a safety net . It assures you gets enough of your daily vitamin intake . Many say it is a waste because in a perfect world and with a perfect diet , you will get what you need . The option is to go to the doctor and see which vitamins/ minerals you are deficient in and start eating those foods/ remedying it or taking that vitamin specifically . So I know that in the winter , due to less sunlight , I need more vitamin D , so I will take a supplement specifically for that .
Operating systems are * * * very complicated * * * . They are trying to manage several hundred things at a time so you as the user get a fast and responsive experience . I 'm going to talk about scheduling . Let 's say you have 10 programs running ( chrome , photoshop , Word , a full screen game , a torrent manager , watching a movie , listening to music , and a bunch of other small programs ) . Your computer can only do one thing at a time ( forget multi - core processors for now ) . It would n't be very useful if you could only listen to music , or only use chrome . So what does it do ? It switches between programs * * * very fast * * * . So fast that you do n't notice it . So , how does it decide what gets priority ? The game needs lots of power , word does n't . The torrent program needs access to the network all the time , the game ( single player for simplicity ) does n't . Etc . etc . So the computer must decide which processes run for how long . However , it 's not a wizard . * * It ca n't predict the future * * . It can only base it 's decisions based on previous events . ( If it sees that the game is
A sonic boom occurs because the speed of sound is the speed at which information propagates in a fluid . But that did n't explain it to you very well , did it ? How does a fluid know it 's flowing around something ? Physically , how does the flow adjust on the upstream side if you drop a rock in a stream , for example ? Well , fluid particles build up at the surface of the obstacle ( because they ran into something ! ) , which increases the pressure near the surface of the obstacle . This elevated pressure decreases in a smooth way to the free stream pressure as you move further away from the obstacle . Far enough upstream , the flow is undisturbed by the rock downstream . And all of this stuff happens pretty quickly once you put the rock in the stream , right ? It 's not like the flow 1 cm upstream of the rock is going to be behave like there 's no rock there , even right after you put the rock in . ( Actually , in the specific case of standing waves caused by rocks in shallow water , the speed at which the information about the presence of the rock travels upstream is actually pretty darn slow , but let 's not let physics get in the way of a good metaphor ! ) Now imagine that the rock is an airplane and the
Aspartame is one of the most studied compounds in the world . It 's been through trial after trial after trial , and we 've still yet to find any good , solid , concrete evidence that it has any negative health consequences for adult humans at the doses we would normally be ingesting them at . However , due to some studies early in the research of aspartame that suggested it was a carcinogen , it got a bad rap early on , and it 's never really shaken it , since it got into the culture so deeply . We do n't find those studies to be particularly credible anymore , but it 's hard to overcome the damage it did to the common " knowledge " .
for the enlisted ranks part of your question was how long does it take to advance in rank . E1 - e3 = right out of boot camp a guy will usually be e1or e2 They advance 1 pay grade usually every 9 - 12 month until e3 . After e3 - for each subsequent advancement they compete with their peers ..... through a combination of a board or a written test and review of the points achieved from awards and periodic evaluations . E4 = 2 - 4 years in military E5 = 3 - 9 years in the military E6 = 7 - 16 years in the military E7 = 8 - 19 years in the military E8 = 15 - 23 years in the military E9 = 18 - 25 years in the military These are all rough estimates because it really depends on the persons performance and how their peer group is manned . So for example if the guy comes in as a medic and we have lots of medics - it may take him a while to get advanced because he is competing with alot of guys for the same spots . On the other hand if he comes in and goes to nuclear power school - he is highly likely to get advanced first or second time he is eligible for every advancement because nuclear techs are in high demand and the military rewards them with quick advancement to try to keep them
Monkeys are simians with tails , apes are simians without tales . Ocassionally , " monkey " is used to referred to all simians . This distinction is imprecise ... old world monkeys are more closely related to apes than they are new world monkeys , yet the two groups are lumped together . There are also some species of macaque , a type of monkey , that lack tails and thus have been labeled ape .
1 ) The climate there is really hot . The World Cup takes place in the Summer . Soccer involves lots of running with few breaks . Needless to say , the heat could become a major problem , leading to injuries and lower quality of play . 2 ) There are accusations that Qatar only received the ability to host as a result of corruption . FIFA has a long history of alleged or proven corruption , and it appears that this particular World Cup is n't any cleaner . However , it seems extra - suspicious for a country to get to host despite a lack of soccer tradition or pre - existing facilities . 3 ) Qatar has an unusual system of dealing with immigrant workers . Essentially , workers come in from places like India , but their bosses have full control over their workers ' passports and whether or not they can leave the country . Combine that with other labor practices like underpaying workers and subjecting them to unsafe conditions , and you have an ethically questionable system . This is the type of labor that 's being used to build the stadiums for the World Cup . Last time I looked it up , around 1,000 workers have died during World Cup construction in Qatar .
Jokes aside , A lot of detailed information can be derived from poop . ( From an aliens perspective ) you could learn what this person has been eating , possibly their dietary restrictions , limits , and habits . The bacteria that lines the bowels is full of interesting details and indicators as to our digestive systems , our current health , the presence of any unwanted bacterium and diseases . TLDR ; Humans look at poop to learn about animals , its reasonable to assume aliens would do it to learn about us .
Guru on a mountain , psychoanalyst with a couch , " End is near " sign guy , and desert island are all cartoon cliches . That 's the joke . It 's like the joke : A priest , a rabbi , a redhead , a blonde and a horse walk into a bar , and the bartender says " what is this , some kind of joke ? " That 's it .
Observations of the universe 's properties do not match up with known laws of physics . There is not enough mass according to observations . One theory is that there is " dark " matter . Matter which does not interact with the electromagnetic spectrum and is therefor not directly detectable . No one knows " why " we have dark matter . If we do , there is n't a reason for its existence no more than there is a reason for normal matter . Its role is important as it helps valiudate the Big Bang theory and is crucial to the formation / structure of the universe itself
Technically ... they do n't . But , it seems plausible and sounds much nicer than , " due to the injuries it 's possible he died immediately , however it is also possible he spent a few minutes trying to move around slicing his muscles apart on broken bone fragments until he choked to death on his own blood . Goodnight , Timmy . "
Hi...by what you quote I think that it could be a simple viral exanthem or it could be hand foot mouth disease. Whatever it is I suggest you show her to her regular pediatricaina and get the opinion to be on the safer side.Hope my answer was helpful for you. I am happy to help any time. Further clarifications and consultations on Health care magic are welcome. If you do not have any clarifications, you can close the discussion and rate the answer. Wish your kid good health.Dr. Sumanth MBBS., DCH., DNB (Paed).,
As the first commenter and replies stated , it 's because anesthesia * can * cause some people to vomit if there are other things in your system . My suggestion would be to go with nitrous oxide . I was in and out in under 7 minutes , and had no pain whatsoever during the procedure . My mouth was a little sore the day of , but mostly a - OK the next day .
The United States only imports 20 % of it 's oil now , and most of it from Canada . [ We should also note the United States is set to become energy self - sufficient by 2035 . ] ( URL_0 ) . Saudi oil is split between Europe , the US and East Asia . A thing to note is we tolerate the Saudi monarchy on behalf of America 's allies more than America itself now . That all said , Saudi Arabia is one of the last absolute monarchies on earth ; whatever the king says goes . If he wanted all Saudi citizens to walk around naked tomorrow , he could make it happen . The running joke is if Saudi women were given the right to vote , they would have nothing to vote for . The Saudi government is highly influenced by extreme imams ( Islamic priests ) . This was n't always the case . Until oil was found in huge amounts , the Arabian peninsula was sparsely populated and religious extremism was n't overbearing like it was today . So yes we tolerate SA 's tomfoolery for the time being because we do n't want to rock the boat , not for us , but our friends . [ * Also we are a bit scared and still remember the 1973 oil embargo on the US * ] ( URL_1 ) . We do n't want that happening again . The truth
They have to meet three criteria . They have to be massive enough to pull themselves into a spherical shape . They must orbit a star . And they need to dominate there orbit by mass . So most of the mass should be with the planet and not other debris that share its orbit . The last rule is why they decided pluto is no longer a planet :( These rules , at least as far as the astronomical community is what constitutes a planet , from a dwarf planet or other debris in space .
Not sure how detailed you want it , because the details are complex biochemical processes and may not make much sense if you do n't have any chemistry knowledge . Essentially , carbohydrates , fats and protein are converted to their single units ( monomers ) , and then small biochemical changes are made to these monomers which generate ATP ( a form of stored energy in the body ) . Three basic processes make up the generation of ATP in cellular respiration : glycolysis , the krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation ( which requires oxygen ) . The type of food consumed determines where this chain of events starts . Glucose for example undergoes glycolysis resulting in the generation of 2 molecules of pyruvate , which then enters the krebs cycle ( in prescence of oxygen ) then undergoes oxidative phosphorylation . Fatty acids enter the krebs cycle directly , as does protein ( in the form of deaminated amino acids ) albeit at a different step of the krebs cycle . The main ATP producing stage is oxidative phosphorylation ( although glycolysis and the krebs cycle do produce ATP as well ) . During the krebs cycle a lot of reduced NAD is generated , and this is used during oxidative phos . During oxidative phosphorylation , electrons are transferred from electron donors ( reduced NAD ) to electron acceptors such as oxygen , in redox reactions . These redox reactions release energy , which is used to
This wo nt be too good an explanation , but here goes . Think of how decimal works . When you get to ten , you start over . Binary is a bit like that , but you start over when you get to past 1 . Instead of 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 you have : 0 1 10 11 110 111 Now ... That what i ve said above is pretty flawed and does nt really tell you much , but the way to work out what binary number represent is to think of it as a sign for doubling of everything . This is prolly beyond most 5 year olds , but lets pretend you are a really advanced 5 year old . Look at this number sequence . * * 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 1024 * * ( if you use computers at all , say , have any idea how much ram you have had over the years , some of those numbers should look familiar yes ? ) okay , so lets list those numbers with some ones below them : 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 1024 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 Now see how some numbers have 1 's below them , in this instance the : 2 , 4 , 16 , & 32 It 's
Well , there were a lot of great games for it , like Super Mario 64 , Goldeneye , Mario Kart 64 , Duke Nukem 64 , Legend of Zelda : Ocarina of Time , and so on . But for me , personally , I love it because it was my first console . All the memories of days too rainy to play outside , or just days when I wanted to be lazy , are tied to it . Memories of friends coming over for a round of Goldeneye . Memories of learning how to take out a go kart with a turtle shell . Hell , Ocarina of Time was the first video game I ever finished . It was a great console , and it still is .
Free apps often use one or more of the following to earn money . 1 . Micropayments - Most of the app is free , but you can pay with your credit card to unlock extra features or perks . 2 . Ads - You have to watch ads while you use the app . 3 . Trial version - The app is just a free trial version for a paid version of the app with more content . 4 . Commissioned - The app was created by an organization that makes money some other what to promote or support that business . For example , the Delta app is free because Delta makes money selling airline tickets , not selling apps .
If you do n't pay off your credit card in full every month , the credit card issuer will charge you interest on whatever amount is left - known as the balance . APR is meant to be a single number that you can use to compare interest rates across different credit cards . The lower the APR , the less interest you are charged on any balances on your credit card . However , over the years APR has gotten a little complicated as well . [ Here 's more info than you probably care to know . ] ( URL_0 ) The bottom line is that the lower the APR , the cheaper it is to carry a balance on that card . The main thing to watch for are " Introductory " APRs , which will give you good rates for the first 6 months or so , then they suddenly rise to their " regular " APR , which can be very high . So keep an eye out when comparing credit cards .
Hi Gauri shailesh dixitWelcome to HealthcareMagic.Thyroid disease itself can be a reason for infertility.It is advisable to correct thyroid and then try for pregnancy.The drugs used in treating thyroid disease can also effect the baby.Anyways , please follow your doctor`s advice strictly and take tablet regularly but not on alternative days.Taking thyronorm on alternate days can cause more harm to you by disturbing your cycle .Please take it regularly.I advise you to visit your Gynecologist and get evaluated for PCOD , as these two disease occur together in many people.Both the diseases can be cause of infertility. Hope I answered your question.If you need more information feel free to mail me. Take care
Computer Scientist here : The simple answer is that no hacker will ever try to reset your password in that site . Let that sink in , and then think about it . Hackers will go after the DB of a site to get passwords and usernames in order to try them against sites that offer money transactions . They try to steal money and credit cards . The info that is n't immediately useful , then gets sold to ad / malware people and finally people who run scams . This process takes weeks at best . So chances are , by the time some unknown third party will try to reset your password , you would have been notified in time and changed it . Hackers do n't want your password . Hackers go after databases with at least thousands of passwords . Friends / Girlfriends etc may want to mess with you , but it 's highly unlikely they have the technical knowledge anyway . It 's possible , it happens , but it 's not the likely scenario . On the other hand , people forget their passwords all the time , and they do get mad and think bad about you if you make their life difficult about it . So there is a tradeoff
No, because of the balance transfer fees, which could be 4%. Unless of course you get a deal for 12 months of no payment, and you pay it back in 12 months, in which case a 4% annual interest rate is much less than a loan! At that point you are gambling that you will be responsible with the payments, and the card company is taking the opposite bet.
Basically , it 's the second one . Unless you 've been living in a cave for the last decade , you 'll be aware that homosexuality ( especially in men ) was considered taboo even being classified as a mental illness in America in the 70s . As I 'm going to assume you 're savvy to , they 're normal human beings . So , I 'm no sociologist , but I can tell you that when a marginalized group wants to assert itself into the social eye it comes out en force . Without getting into group consciousness , * * the gay community seeks to normalize its people so they 've got to push back the long history of oppression by coming out hard for a generation or two . * * I hope that gives something of an idea ; I 'm extremely lay in these fields as well but I wanted to help .
Because people like to bandwagon , and there 's a ton of misinformation and sensationalist / Big Organic - funded articles and documentaries out there . A few that come to mind : Suing farmers over their fields being cross - pollinated : bullshit , based on a case where a farmer had some of his field cross - pollinated with a glyphosphate - resistant strand , and then * intentionally * sprayed all his crops with glyphosphate to kill off the non - resistant ones . Forcing farmers to buy new seeds every year : this has been common practice for a long time , GMO or not , with practically every seed company . No one is forced to buy the seeds ; they just have to honor their contract if they do . Terminator genes : never been used commercially , and no plans to do so . General anti - GMO sentiment : GMOs have to undergo strict testing before being brought to market , while non - GMO ( including [ mutation - bred ] ( URL_0 ) ) strains have little to none . Now watch me get accused of being a shill .
Here is my take : I am Asian - American , so when I first heard 2 years ago that some Asian kid from Harvard completely outplayed the ultra - hyped John Wall in a summer league game , my interest was piqued . That season when ever my team the Lakers would play Golden State ( Lin 's team ) , I would follow the game very very closely . In the games I observed of him , he got quite a few minutes for an undrafted player , and it was my feeling that he would come off the bench learning the ropes and such in his first year and eventually gain a starting spot . I really did think he was that good . Long story short , the Warrior cut Lin last summer , and I had not followed his career until his recent emergence with the Knicks . Here is an article that explains this phenomenon pretty well : URL_0 . Many people are wondering when it will all end . Myself , I am not worried about that at all and am just enjoying the ride . Not to say that there is any indication that his star will fall sooner rather than later , since he has already shown the skills necessary to be an elite point guard in the league .
> I can do the math and understand that this is the case , but I simply can not wrap my head around this . The shape with the smallest perimeter - to - area ratio is the circle . It 's not possible to cram more space in a smaller perimeter . Thus the closer a shape is to being a circle , the more area it covers for the same perimeter . A square is closer to being a circle than a rectangle is , and thus a square of a given perimeter will cover a larger area than a rectangle of the same perimeter .
While the USA has n't declared war since WW2 they have declared authorization of use of military force a couple of times . I 'm no expert at american law but I believe they are essentially the same , with one major difference being that a declaration of war automatically triggers a whole bunch of standby statutory authorities that gives special powers to the President with respect to the military , transportation , manufacturing etc so it 's probably less domestic sensitive to issue AUMFs instead .
One important thing to consider is that the Marathon bombers were n't targeting anyone in particular . They had * no idea * who their bombs would kill . We do n't know what their motives were yet , but that fact alone means that they did n't have a personal vendetta against one particular person , which is what you would expect with murder . That leaves us with them just being crazy and wanting to cause a stir , and them having an external goal they wanted to accomplish . The first one is n't super likely -- truly crazy people tend to act alone , it 's difficult to find someone else who is just as crazy as you are . That leaves us with them having an external goal they wanted to accomplish . And that tactic is known as terrorism .
Waste is n't really a bad thing , in fact it 's one of the defining factors of " living things " is that they produce waste . It 's not like your body is n't operating at peak efficiency and that 's why you poop . Although , poop can be a very important determinant in your health . If you have a poor diet , you 'll poop irregularly , often have diarrhea or painful pooping , and the poop will be oddly colored and have a less solid consistency .
I 'm a physician completing my residency in internal medicine . The answers here miss the mark in that infections kill you from hypotension ( low blood pressure ) because of fluid loss and shift . The components of this process are : -poor intake : people lose their appetite while sick -gastrointestinal losses : vomiting , diarrhea -insensible losses : sweating which is typical in febrile illnesses But the primary reason infections kills you is septic shock : dysregulation of your immune system leading to inappropriate dilation of your arteries / veins , thereby dropping blood pressure . Additionally , your vessels become ' leaky ' and you get distribution of fluid from your intravascular spaces ( i.e. in the arteries and veins ) into your extravascular spaces which include interstitial tissue that make up your organs . So when you come to hospital with a serious infection , the most important components of what we do are 1 ) intravenous fluid , typically 30ml / kg right off the bat intravenously and 2 ) antibiotics , in that order . The sicker someone is , the more important that order is because what 'll kill you is the low blood pressure . In most cases , you 'll be fine , but influenza kills something like 30k people in the US every year . Malaria has killed more people than anything in human history . So drink up .
Batteries are kind of like tanks filled with water attached to a faucet . When you turn on the faucet , the water comes out . You can tell how much water is left in the tank by measuring the force at which the water comes out . Same thing with batteries , except the water is electricity and the force is the voltage .
The crumble is intentional . It 's called a crumple zone and it saves many lives , because the car gives way rather than transferring all the kinetic energy to your fleshy body . If you 've driven a smartcar , it 's too small for a crumple zone so they had to build it out of steel . My god is it uncomfortable to drive . Every bump in the road is transferred directly to your ass . It 's heavy and handles poorly as well
A lot of countries outside of the United States do this . For example in Germany all students are kept together until the 4th grade . Following the fourth grade , students are divided into three different schools . The " lowest " being the Hauptschule which focuses on apprenticeship and a slower learning environment . Then there is the Realschule , which is the " middle " learning school . This school often leads to vocational training . Students at the top of the Realschule are sometimes able to join the Gymnasium after graduation which is the " top " level . Students in Gymnasium are somewhat focused on a specific track such as language or science and graduate with an Abitur and most will go on to the university to study .
sound can be measured in two different units . Sound intensity , an absolute value , is W / m^2 or power / area . decibels are a logarithmic value . the formula for decibles is 10log(I / T ) where I = sound intensity in W / m^2 and T = the human threshold for hearing , the smallest sound we can hear , 10 ^ -12 W / m^2 . Logarithms . log(x ) is a function which gives you the power you need to apply to 10 to get x. log(10 ) is 1 , log(100 ) is 2 , and so on . If the value you put in the log is betwen 0 and 1 , the result is negative . Going back to db . the number you put inside log is the ratio between the sounds intensity and the threshold of hearing ( a very small number ) the only way to get this value to be between 0 and 1 is if the sounds intensity is smaller than the threshold of hearing . example , 10log(10 ^ -13 /10 ^ -12 ) = -10 Conclusion : The sound 's actual intensity was n't negative , but since the sound was smaller than the human threshold for hearing , the dB value was negative .
Since we 're talking storage space , imagine a hotel . Customers check in , they use the room , then they check out and the room becomes available again . Every once in a while , a customer never checks out . When someone else checks in , the clerk looks at the available room list and wo n't assign the new guest to the room that has n't been checked back in because he thinks someone else is still in it . Over time , you get a lot of empty rooms with no one in them , but the clerk thinks they 're all full , and you get a lobby full of new guests who ca n't get in because there are no vacancies , even though a lot of the rooms are empty .
I am going to assume your location is the US. From what I am seeing it is unlikely you will get a loan other than some government backed thing. You are a poor risk. At 7k/month, you have above average household income. The fact that all of your income "is being washed off somewhere" is a behavior problem, not a mathematical one. For example, why do you have a car payment? You should purchase a car for cash. Failing that, given reasonable rent (1100), reasonable car payment (400), insurances (300), other expenses (1000), you should clear at least 4000 per month in cash flow. Where is that money going? Here tracking spending and budgeting is your friend. Figure out the leaks in your budget and fix them. By cutting back, and perhaps working a second job or somehow earning more you could have a down payment for a home in as little as 10 months. That is not a very long time. Similarly we can discuss the grocery store. Had you prepared for this moment three years ago you could have bought the store for cash. This would have eliminated a bunch of risk and increase the likelihood of this venture's success. If you had started this one year ago, you could have gone in with a significant down payment. The bank would see this as a good risk if you wanted to borrow the remainder. Instead the bank sees you as a person as a poor risk. You spend
You 're soft and big . When your feet hit the floor the force of impact spreads out across the area of your foot . Your tissues also deform during the transfer of energy , letting the energy bleed out over a longer period of time . When a 15 pound weight hits the floor only a very small area of the weight actually hits the floor and it does not bend much . All the energy of the fall is transferred into a very small region very quickly , shattering the tiles .
Hair follicles on different parts of your body will only grow a hair for a certain period of time . Once that time is over , the hair will sit there in the follicle until it is dislodged . Then a new hair will start to grow . If this period of time is short , the hair that comes from the follicle will always be short . If this period is long , like for head hair , the hair will grow long .
Biology graduate powers .. Go ! I guess the quick answer to your question is yes for saltwater , no for fresh water . The longer version goes like this . All life on earth has to deal with the problem of regulating the amount of water they need to survive . For most animals this involves having to find ways to take in water or conserve what has already been taken in . Humans do this by drinking free water ( ie . liquid water from a river , lake , faucet , etc . ) when our brain signals that we need more . Other organisms , like desert mammals , have very limited access to free water . They have developed interesting and complex mechanisms to preserve the precious water that they get from eating plants or other animals that contain water . Both camels and kangaroo rats , for instance , have extremely long nasal passages that absorb water from exhaled air . Both of these animals are incapable of fogging up a mirror , interestingly . They also have an extremely long loop of Henle . This is a part of the kidney that is largely responsible for reabsorption of water from the substance that will become urine . You can usually tell how difficult water regulation is for a given organism by how long the loop of Henle is ( assuming they have kidneys that function similar to ours ) . To take this
A very important part of this , is your actual browsing history , known by Google . If Google recognize you , and knows you are browsing like every other human being would do ( check the news , read your email ) , than you get the easy challenge . However , if Google does n't know , or trust you , you can get a lot picture solving challenges . Sometimes I have to solve 3 challenges before reCAPTCHA is satisfied .
For how you might argue it , consider the following : If we can simulate a universe , then that universe can simulate a universe , and that universe can simulate a universe , and so on , the there are probably a very large number of simulated universes for each given root universe . If there are more simulated universes than ' real ' universes , then this one is probably a simulation . Another argument is that our universe follows mathematical laws , and seems to show signs of optimisation to speed up computing ( for example we have maximum speeds and minimum temperatures and a number of seemingly arbitrary constants defining relationships ) There is this explanation in comic form here : URL_0
An interpreted language does not need to be compiled , this means that it is faster to change something and try again , so potentially better for learning to program . These days it 's pretty fast either way , though , so makes little difference . It 's also easier to create a simple interpreted language and interpreter than it is a compiled one and a compiler .
you would also say something like " so and so was in the new episode of " name that show " . when refering to the specific episode or show you also say in . when refering to the device that disseminates it people say on . as in " i saw it on TV " , " i heard it on the radio " , even movies could be refered to as " on the big screen "
The solution of an ordinary differential equation is a function of the one variable that the ODE involves . Functions are nice because they tell you behaviors rather than just a number . For example , a falling exponential function is extremely well understood and has lots of things you can say about it right away . OK , so the ODE is usually used to describe a physical system , and you derive it by knowing some basic laws that control the system . So once you know the equation , then you know the solution , and then you know the behavior of the system .
On top of what aorian said , those machines that appear to only use electricity are designed to do a specific function , and their construction might actually be pretty expensive . Something as " simple " as an X - ray machine can cost over $ 100,000 . The hospital has to somehow cover the cost of a potentially multi - million dollar machine , which usually means passing the cost onto the patient . Also , think of all the stuff someone ends up using over the course of even a short hospital stay . Between doctors and nurses ( who are generally specialists in a field and therefore more expensive ) , medicine , tests , machines , and even the room and board , a lot of money goes in to even a short and simple stay . More complicated tests , emergency treatment ( ambulances , helicopters , etc ) , and surgery only use up more resources . Hospitals are usually private entities , which means they have to balance cost with price to turn a profit . Add in the fact that some people ca n't pay ( you ca n't exactly turn down a poor person for emergency medical treatment ) , and the people who do end up paying usually end up paying a lot .
The closest thing to the " home " of the internet would be the 13 top - level domain servers located around the world , but " home " is probably the wrong word . The Internet is the collection of computers all over the world who communicate with each other . If the Internet is the road system in your country , major ( Tier 1 ) ISPs are responsible for the interstates and major highways . They connect to smaller ISPs , who maintain the business routes and smaller roads that connect to the highways . Those ISPs can connect to smaller ISPs , who manage the roads that lead to your house . Sometimes these companies are one in the same , sometimes they 're not , but by linking them all together , you can drive from your house to anywhere in the country ( send data anywhere in the world ) using this massive network .
It 's not inherently healthier , but restaurants tend to do things slightly differently . They use tons of salt and butter or other fatty oils and sauces . It helps seasonings stick to the food better and tastes amazing , but does a number on its calorie count . I used to work at a chain restaurant where , for a regular burger , they would butter the insides of the bun before lightly toasting them on the flat - top . Speaking of which , it did not get as hot on that surface as the regular grill and let the beef keep more of its grease and juices , compounding the " unhealthy " nature of it .
What language are you using , and where do you come across it ? This probably ultimately comes down to the idea of lambda functions , from functional programming . In very simple terms , this means the creation of anonymous functions not bound to a name , that you can use in interesting ways . This [ stackoverflow post ] ( URL_0 ) is a good explanation . Assuming this is the case , the lambda is * not * a function , but ( if it 's something in the language itself ) a method of defining functions . For instance , if you 're using python then lambda is a keyword for this . For instance ... def square(x ): return x**2 and square = lambda x : x**2 ... would both define the function ' square ' . However , as in the link above , lambda functions allow you to do interesting new things . They should n't be used simply to replace def syntax .
Former bus driver here , we are required to by law . It is a practice that forces you to stop , look and listen to check both directions for an oncoming train . Since you can stop much easier than the train , it just makes sense . Side note , if your car stalls on tracks with a train oncoming always move diagonal from the tracks in the direction of the train . This is the area least likely to be hit by debris .
Ethnic stores are normally small business that do n't require the type of overhead and profit margins that big chains do . With that , they do n't need to up the price as much . They also cater to people from their own country and some ethnic groups are here primarily for work in low - wage jobs where expensive ingredients would not be in their interest . Lastly , they may import a lot of their ingredients at a relatively low price .
The historical reasons that the people have mentioned are very true , but they are not the only reason . Jewish culture is very strong , even across continents people have things in common , and years of discrimination have caused Jews to band together and make themselves useful . This is both the very issue that leads to so much discrimination , and the issue that keeps many Jews safe ; by making themselves essential to a community , they ensure that they can not be gotten rid of , but they will also garner a lot of resentment . So it 's kind of double - edged . More recently , Jewish culture is also very supportive of itself , establishing organizations all around the world in order to help other Jews . The culture puts a lot of emphasis on scholarly pursuit / education ( which is why there are so many Jewish philosophers ) , and shared values between Jews also means that Jews are more likely to view each other as family , and thus help each other out . This provides an effective safety net for Jews who want to ' rise to the top ' . As for Hollywood and comedy stereotypes , which are kind of true to an extent ( just check out the statistics of how much of those industries are Jewish ) , it has been shown in the past that people deal with difficult histories and events through
Not a dermatologist , but I 'd guess it was due to the skin being thinner and also because the inside of your nose if pretty sensitive . It does n't see much outside activity other than filtering small debri and the occasional nose pick . This is likely part of why materials that feel soft to our fingers , like tissue paper , still irritates and causes soreness to our nose as we get sick . Your nose just is n't used to the additional activity .
Carbon dating ( an other dating methods based on " rate of decay " ) are based on ratios not on amounts , so you do not need to know " how many " there were , you only need to know the ratio of two ( or more ) isotopes now . You assume you know what the ratio used to be and because the decay rate changes the ratio , you can figure out the time since the decay started . Carbon dating only works for organic compounds that had died in the last roughly 50 - 60k years . While the organism is alive , the fact it is constantly eating keeps the ratio the same . If you do not eat , the ratio will change . So the ratio does not really start changing until the organism dies . That means you measure how long it has been dead ( or stopped eating ) , not how long it lived while it was alive . So for radiometric dating you have to assume you know what the ratio used to be in the environment the sample comes from and you have to assume you know what caused the ratio to start changing ( like " it died " ) . ( Carbon dating can be a little different for organisms living at the bottom of sea vs. land animals and plants . )
Humans are not inherently rational animals , and there are several instances where people will prioritize feelings or needs over truth . If you are surrounded by people who believe the same things and criticism or rejection of those things is likely to get you expelled from that group , many will come to accept them rather than risk so much .
Film is just a bunch of photographs , they have higher picture quality than pretty much any digital picture does . A pixel in a digital photo needs a whole little man made sensor and wiring , a photograph is just a little bit of chemical . We are getting to the point the visual difference between digital and analog is n't really there but analog photos are still miles ahead of digital and might always be .
But of course : Create an entity who , by definition , can not be detected by the human senses nor measured by scientific instruments . We would never be able to prove if they exist or not , and thus the possibility that they * do * exists arises . The more important question is : does it make sense to believe in something you ca n't prove ?
The scandal originally was about when the attacks occurred the Administration , including Hillary Clinton , blamed it on reaction to some terribly made [ anti - Muslim movie trailer ] ( URL_0 ) . In actuality it was coordinated effort by Al Qaeda . This got the Republicans very upset . And they accused Obama of playing politics by covering up a security failure and Al Qaeda attack and pointing fingers at the movie and implying that Republican extremists were the cause . Instead of the White House being grown ups and admitting they messed up they have parsed statements and shown that technically they did make some statements blaming terrorists rather than movie critics . And instead of the Republicans being grown ups and getting over the whole thing they have conducted Congressional hearings to look into the thing . The congressional hearings today are about how much warning there was before the attack . The Republicans are trying to find something but have no actual evidence the White House did anything drastically wrong .
It may be partially from our personal experiences with those types of situations . Since we know the feeling of embarrassment that comes from falling off a bike , we can relate to that and find humor when seeing it from another person 's perspective . For example , a video depicting a guy breaking his leg in a skateboarding accident may be disturbing to the person who 's never experienced that , but the person that broke his leg last summer may chuckle because he can relate . Source : I like making up stuff .
I did a little time in both a county jail and a prison . In the county jail I got a very cheap single bladed razor . It did not have a metal blade , I can only assume it was sharp plastic or possibly ceramic . The guards had us sign them out on a sign up sheet , and would come looking for us if we did n't return them by lunch time . In the state prison I was issued an actual metal razor . It was a single bladed , plastic , bic style razor . Everyone had to put their initials on them to keep them from getting mixed up , as hepatitis and HIV are very abundant in the prison systems . Once a month I could exchange it for a new one . Keep in mind , I was in a minimum restricted prison , and I can only assume its a different scenario for the maximum security prisoners . As for the razors themselves they were terrible and took several swipes before you were smooth . Razor burn was common among the inmates . As far as making them into weapons , we had access to much better " weapon making materials " than a cheap little razor . I worked in the kitchen and handed knives often , and there were several other jobs where , power tools , saws and other sharp items were handled .
Think of a bit as a switch that can be either in the " on " or " off " position . Computers work by connection billions of those switches together and having some switches determine the position of other switches . Having a " maybe " position on the switch makes it so that any switches connected to it are now unpredictable , which makes it hard to do anything with them . What does happen all the time is that several switches are linked together . Then you could have another switch that 's only " on " when at least some of the connected switches are " on " . That 's how you can make " maybe " or " in - between " values which .
So to start off with we should probably imagine what a hypercube actually is by analyzing lower dimensional analogous mathematical objects . * So a 1 d version of this is a line , it 's simply 2 0 d points connected together through a new dimension . * A 2d square is two lines connected together through a new dimension . * A 3d cube is two squares connected together through a new dimension . So likewise all that we are doing really with our hypercube is taking 2 equal size cubes , moving one into a new dimension that is perpendicular to our original 3 and then connecting the corners . Presto we have our hypercube . It 's really nothing complicated at all but it strikes us as this absurd thing because we ca n't comprehend what a 4th dimension looks based on our prior experience . Sort of a weird thing though that I want to point out about it is just what to keep track because it might start messing with your head in a bit . * So with a point , we just have a point . * With a line we have a line and 2 points . * With a square we have a square , 4 lines and 4 points . * With a cube we have a cube , 6 squares , 12 lines and 8 points . * With a hyper cube we have a hyper cube ,
Think of the world as one giant mathematical equation . It is really difficult given the limited data we have to see how changing one variable affects the equation . We currently have hypothesis that strongly indicate climate change . But actual proof is more difficult . However , I for one do n't want to take a chance on it . And it 's pretty obvious that polluting the environment in which you live is not the way to go . It 's also advanced science , and to explain everything so nobody can doubt it is just not doable .
The debt is measured in the tens of trillions , the richest American has around 50 billion . Per URL_0 , the 400 richest men in the US have an average worth of $ 4 billion each ( which means # 400 on the list is probably in the high hundred millions , since that 's the average ) . So if the 400 richest men in the US all donated all their money ( which is impossible anyway , since a lot of that money is tied up in stocks and if they all tried to liquidate all at once the stock prices would fall dramatically and they 'd get nowhere near that much money out of it ) , they 'd reduce the debt by a mere 10 % .
Good sports teams bring in students . Students bring money and allow the University to expand . If you were the chancellor of your university , one of your top goals would be to draw in good students . Good students mean ... * National prestige for the university * More funding through grants , etc . * Wealthier alumni that can then donate money to the university You have to factor in culture to the equation . Every country 's culture is different . In the U.S. , the culture considers sports very important . I personally am not a big sports fan , but I * understand * why my university has such a big sports program . On a side note , if all of the sports teams at universities were disbanded tomorrow , there would be an outcry from the anti - obesity lobby saying that we are not doing enough to promote exercise ( which may be true in this case as college sports promote exercise to kids ) .
Do n't know what the second one is but can answer for ibuprofen . It belongs to a class of drugs knows as nonsteroidal anti - inflammitory drugs(NSAIDS ) . Basically inflammation is your body ramping things up to deal with a situation . This involves the release of chemicals that cause inflammation , which(among other things ) create pain through direct contact with nerves . They also create fever through a number of mechanisms that basically serves to create a hot hostile environment for what ever is invading your body and increase blood flow to the affected area . NSAIDS work by reducing the amount of these inflammatory chemicals being released in the first place .
A scientific theory is not simply a " guess " that is waiting to be proven . Theories never become facts . Theories are * supported * by facts . To quote Wikipedia : > A scientific theory is " a well - substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world , based on a body of facts that have been repeatedly confirmed through observation and experiment . " Theories are essentially the top level in science . You start with a hypothesis , you gather data ( facts ) , and you end up with a theory that explains all those facts .
the top rated post does a great job on the details , but this is ELI5 , so here goes : When countries ( the US excluded ) are buying planes for their military , they want to spend as little as possible while doing as much as possible . A multi - role fighter like the F-35 suits many missions and requires less support to deploy . The only countries with the support necessary to deploy a dedicated air - superiority fighter like the F-22 already have their own in development .
Radium has luminescent properties and before its dangers were well understood it was used in luminescent paint for watches and other products and that paint was commonly green . This was basically the first and only instance of a radioactive material being used in products that the average member of the public would be exposed to , to my knowledge , so it makes sense that it would have a big impact on public perception .
The fact that Cuba is a regime hostile to the United States is a significant strategic liability to American interests . It does n't really matter much in 2014 , since there are no real rival superpowers , but during the years of the Soviet Union , the fact that Cuba was an ally of the USSR was worrisome . The most obvious instance is the Cuban Missile Crisis of course . If a future superpower can station military assets in Cuba , they can threaten the United States . If one wanted to hit New Orleans , which serves as the largest port in the Western Hemisphere , Cuba would be the staging ground . The United States would love it if a more friendly regime came into place . That being said , the United States does trade with Cuba . We 're their [ fifth largest ] ( URL_0 ) trading partner . It 's mostly just food though . The embargo continues to exist for two reasons . Many think that trading with Cuba would help prop up the Castro brothers . They hope that once Fidel & Raul die , then a new government more hospitable to the United States may come in , which would be good for both parties . The second reason is political . There 's a large Cuban - American population in the United States ( Florida in particular ) , who mostly fled Cuba when the Communists took over
In a zero sum game , one player winning more means the others have to lose more . For example , if you and I are splitting up a pile of money , this is a zero - sum game : for me to get $ 1 more , you have to get $ 1 less . In other words , the total rewards are always identical , it 's only the * distribution * that differs . Not all games , in a mathematical sense or otherwise , are zero sum . For example , trading can produce increased value for * both * partners relative to not trading . Going to war might produce worse value for both parties . If there 's ever a situation where I help another player and expect benefit for myself ( and no cost to anyone else ) , it 's not zero - sum .
Your example is just a movie lot . With fancy editing , a very enclosed space can seem much more expansive . The same can be done when shooting on location : close off half a block of city street and shoot it from three different angles , you can make it seem like you 're shooting across half a mile of city . But CGI is used a LOT more than you might think to replace backgrounds and add detail . Check out [ this video . ] ( URL_0 ) I 'm willing to bet you never would have guessed that most or even all of those were entirely faked .
In the 1950s [ Dmitry Belyaev ] ( URL_1 ) started an experiment in domesticating animals that has been running for over 50 years . It was [ very educational ] ( URL_3 ) and lead to several theories on the subject : * It takes several generations before an animal can be domesticated , but it can be done by selective breeding of the more docile individuals . * A lot of the differences in domesticated animals seems to be an effect of having lower adrenaline levels . This affects behaviour and appearance . * Early dogs may have [ domesticated themselves ] ( URL_0 ) . Animals have a [ flight zone ] ( URL_2 ) and a distance where they consider it to be safe to eat . Dogs with lower adrenalin levels are comfortable with much shorter distances , so can better scavenge from human camps . * Domestication changes animals ' appearances . So animals which are raised for fur ca n't be domesticated or else the fur starts looking wrong .
There is a strong incentive for a small group to profit greatly , which puts a lot of pressure on them to get it passed . There 's no laws stopping them from trying again , since it 's mostly judgement based on the agency , so they 're free to keep trying . There 's never really been a permanent answer / solution .
Well , they kind of do . Often times , terminally ill patients in their final stretch will be hooked up to a machine that administers morphine , or some other painkiller that they have control over ( up to a certain point ) in order to alleviate pain and make them more comfortable . But drugs such as ecstasy , heroine , meth , etc . that make you euphoric , at the same time are illegal , and are considered to dangerous to even have handled by medical professionals .
Short : They do n't , but ... During the Cold War there was the thought - doctrine of " mutually assured destruction " -- basically , " if you launch at us first , we 'll launch back at you to ensure that you will be just as much radioactive dust as we are " . Basically , a decades - long twisted staring contest of playing " chicken " , where if either side blinked than the whole world would die . Included in all this was a one - up - manship of " I can destroy you even more than you can destroy me " nuclear arms race . " I have 10000 missiles ! " " Well , I have 11000 missiles ! " and so forth . Well , that ended when the Soviet Union collapsed . However , there 's still all these missiles laying around . There 've been a few disarmament treaties between the US and Russia , I believe called " SMART " and " SMART 2 " or some - such ... basically stating something like " I 'll destroy 7000 if you destroy 6000 , and then we 'll frisk each other 's pockets to make sure we actually did it " . This started with Clinton , and Obama may have tried for another iteration of this type of treaty but I 'm not sure . I do n't know if Bush Jr was involved in anything
SEC Form 3 and SEC Form 4 are filed when insiders make share/derivatives acquisitions, transfers, sells and buys There is a time limit AFTER the action where they can be filed, such as 12 business days, so this can be a substantial amount of time after the effect on the market, depending on your strategy. You can aggregate these forms from SEC sources or from third party websites and services. In some cases, types of insider trading are permissible at certain intervals, so if you learn about when certain shares become unlocked, you can try to predict what insider actions will be and share price movements around those times.
URL_0 Most home ISPs run tier 3 ( or at best tier 2 ) networks . When your upstream traffic is routed outside their network , it 's using up bandwidth they must pay for , and of which they usually have a limited amount . Think of mail for instance . When you send a letter you must buy a stamp to pay for the service . If you send a letter to another country you must buy a more expensive stamp . But on the internet it still costs the same , it 's the post office ( the ISP ) that foots the bill . They have a limited pre - purchased ( pre - agreed ) amount of letters they can send across the border , so they limit the letters a customer can send as well . On the other hand , you can receive any amount of letters , so it only depends on how many mail carriers they employ !
I have a few female friends who are stunningly beautiful but look awful in photos . They all have the same problem . They have lovely smiles , but when they pose , they fake their smiles . Instead of smiling with their whole faces , they only use their mouths , and it looks bizarre , like they 're not really happy to be there .
The fictional book The Chamber is told from the point of view of a lawyer defending a death row client and walks the reader through the whole process . It 's well - known that capital punishment costs much more than keeping someone in prison for life , and that blacks are much more likely to get the death penalty for the same crime as whites , and that innocent people have been executed . Why it still exists in the US ( the last industrialized country to have it , right ? ) is a mystery to me .
It depends primarily on how the Canadian economy is designed i.e export oriented or import oriented. If you look at this, it shows more or less equal amount of exports and imports. For the specific case of Canada, the exports would become costlier, because of a costlier dollar, but at the same time imports would become cheaper. This is only a generalization, not specific goodswise, which would require a more detailed ananlysis. But investors have a different dilemma. Canadian investors would find it cheaper to invest abroad so may channel their investments abroad because they may find it costlier to invest in Canada. While foreign investors would find it costlier to invest in Canada and may wait for later or invest somehwre else. Then government may try to boost up investment and start lowering the interest rates, if it sees the rising dollar as detrimental for the Canadian economy and investments flowing abroad instead of Canada. But what would be the final outcome of the whole rigmarole is little difficult to predict, because something is arriving and something is departing and above all goverment is doing something or is going to do. But the basic gist is Canadian exporters will be sad and Canadian importers will be happy, but vice versa for foreign investors intending to invest in Canada.
The different naming schemes are basically a way for Intel to distinguish how powerful each processor is . An i3 is the slowest , then an i5 , and i7 is the fastest . However , within the ' i ' series , there are now 4 ' generations ' of processors .. each year , Intel refreshes their processor lineup with new versions of the processors , so a 4th - generation i5 will be faster than a 3rd - generation i5 ( and usually newer processors are more efficient , using less electricity and running cooler , as well ) . You can tell which generation a Core - i processor is from by the number after it - 4xxx is 4th - gen , 3xxx is 3rd - gen , etc . ( so i5 - 4670 is a 4th - gen , for example ) . Pretty much any Core - i processor will be faster than a Core2Duo and probably any Core2Quad as well . The best way to compare how fast processors are in relation to each other is to look at benchmarks for specific applications though ( a benchmark is just a measure of how well a specific piece of hardware performs ) . As for how many cores each one has , it depends on which specific processor you 're talking about .. you can easily Google a specific processor to find out how many cores it has . One other thing
Partly because people are used to paying higher prices , and partly because it costs the phone company more . The telephone system is separate from the internet , and uses different cables . The big difference is that while the internet uses packages , the phone system uses a dedicated channel , which gets set up when you place the call , and stays in place while the call is active . The cable between the different countries can only handle a certain number of channels , so they charge for usage of them , to prevent them from getting flooded . VOIP works for the most part , but has to deal with bigger lag ( as each package gets routed separately ) , dropped packages , and the possibility of packages arriving out of order ( if they took different routes ) . The dedicated channel for telephones means that once you are connected , you generally stay connected .
You have to appreciate the history of the bicycle . We did n't leap from nothing to the penny - farthing . The first historically verified bicycle was a German invention that was called a " running machine " . It had two wheels and was steerable , and you sat in a saddle and walked . The bicycle allowed you to glide and save effort . It looked much like a modern bicycle with two wheels of equivalent size , a frame , handle bars , and a seat between the two wheels . The penny - farthing eventually evolved because people realized that driving the wheel itself might be more advantageous . At this point , if you can glide on a running machine , it does n't take much more to drive pedals , you can already maintain balance . They used a gigantic wheel because machining and materials were not sophisticated enough to build chains and gearing , the large wheel allowed you to build appreciable speed . The style of bicycle of the penny - farthing is called a " Standard " bicycle . There was a strong desire to build a modern bicycle , called then a " safety bicycle " , because the standard was quite dangerous in a few scenarios - it had the inclination to pitch you forward and drive your face into the ground . The only thing that held it back was the gearing and chain mechanism , because
While there 's a lot of overlap among the three diagnoses , there are some unique factors to each diagnosis . So for example all 3 might lack empathy , have feelings of grandeur , and be controlling and manipulative , it 's only psychopaths who lack any conscience . They 're also easily bored and lack an ability to feel fear beyond immediate peril . They do n't need people because they do n't care about people . Hannibal Lecter is a psychopath . He feels no guilt for anything he 's done . He 's bored and likes to show he 's smarter than others by doing things such as killing and eating people , or killing people and making other people eat them unwittingly . He can bite off someone 's tongue and swallow it while his heart rate never changes from normal , because he does n't feel fear or nervousness , nor emotions beyond very shallow ones of entertainment , when he does this . A narcissist does have a conscience so * may * feel guilt about bad things they 've done , though many have a very weak conscience so will feel no guilt at all . They typically DO have empathy , but only for those who they recognize as useful to them , or similar to them . To the extent a person is similar to them , they may relate to that person . Otherwise , they wo n't .
First , a company that does n't make any money would n't ( and should n't ) pay taxes . By this I mean taxes on profits . Of course they 'll pay payroll , real - estate , sales , and other taxes aplenty . Second , profitable companies operating legally and carefully following the laws can arrange their business to minimize their tax burden . Imagine it like this : individuals do the same thing . If I pay a $ 500 / month mortgage , I 'll pay less taxes than if I pay $ 500 / month rent . In both cases I 'm out $ 500 / month for housing , but by choosing to borrow money to buy a home , I reduce my income tax .
Actually , the record is [ somewhat over 5000 years ] ( URL_1 ) . [ Clonal trees ] ( URL_0 ) may be very much more . Possibly up to a million years . As to why - trees have a lot of things going for them . They can survive when some bits die , they retain the ability to grow new bits , once they 've adapted to cope with local pests they 'll probably stay that way for ever ...
Well I do n't know how old you are but in my experience of presenting any sort of material in front of a crowd I 'm so nervous and focused on not fucking up there is not a single part of my body which has the ability to even fathom thinking about coughing or whatever . Also I do n't know about you but when I try to hold a cough in it is impossible . And while you can hold a sneeze in but first you do n't realize you have to sneeze until you feel the pressure in your nose building up or when you scrunch up your face . Either way if a famous artist attempted either one of those it would be impossible not to notice . So all in all I believe it simply does n't happen because while we are nervous in from of 10 - 30 people they are literally shitting themselves from fear in front of 10,000 - 30,000 + people . Source : 16 years of life experience : and my ass which I pull the rest of the information from
Emoji comes from Japanese . In english , with 26 letters , 10 numbers and a smattering of punctuation and control codes , everything we needed fit into the 127 spaces in a 7 - bit number . But Japanese has many , many more , so they needed lots more space . They chose a 16 - bit number . But that left them lots of room for other things . Among these other things were a bunch of Japanese - themed pictures - Emoji . Then Unicode came along , with the aim of producing 1 set of codes for everything . Everything included the Emoji . Nobody noticed . Then Apple took their iDevices to Japan . IDevices use unicode , the Japanese expected their Emoji , and so it was provided . A while later , someone noticed that you could turn on the Unicode Emoji keyboard on Western iDevices , and used them to send their friend a text with an Emoji in it . It was probably a Pile of Poo . That person wanted to know how they could send a Pile of Poo to someone else .. and so it spread . So that 's how the Emoticons - pictures reinterpreting strings like ;) - were replaced by Emoji , which are actually single characters , like a , D or ☺ .
1 ) A lot of people hate her because she is pointing out uncomfortable truths about the world of gaming and it 's culture . There are plenty of valid criticisms about her " thorough research " but it is impossible to suggest she has no valid points . We ( in this case " we " being " men " ) do n't like being told that we are all guilty of perpetuating harmful stereotypes , because for the most part we are n't , playing video games where women are mistreated is as likely to turn all men into brutal misogynists as violent video games are as likely to turn us all into brutal murderers . So a lot of people become defensive and reject her ideas completely , and a small amount of very stupid people really over react and send her death threats online .
It 's been awhile , but i 'll go through what i know There s the Mystery Method . 3 stages with 3 substages each . 1 ) Introduction 2 ) Comfort 3 ) Seduction . When you hear about folks talking about ' negging ' or insulting the woman , this is a step of the mm . Then there s cocky / funny . This is less of a method , and more of a ' Hey , keep this in mind , if you can pull off cocky / funny its golden " Example : Woman says " Hey , you look familiar " , you reply " Probably because i 'm the man of your dreams " There is also NLP ( Neuro Linguistic Programming ) . These are subtle language tricks you can use to get the mark to associate you as sexual / relationship material . From personal experience , all the above work . Its what you do with them that gets you in trouble . Protip : Take what works from each ' method ' make your own method that jives with who you are . You may be a great awesome person , and learning how to adequately convey that to another person is n't ' gaming ' or ' unethical ' at all . Edit2 : Wanna go down the rabbithole ? URL_0
Seems like the doctor's office is not very organized. Ask for a line itemized bill. You want the date and the specific service(s) performed on those dates. If the bill seems fair and correct, try to negotiate cash discount payment. Ask how much they would settle for if you paid cash. If it is higher than you were thinking, say you were not expecting this sudden bill and if they would accept $xxx. If they say yes, great. If not, try to compromise, pay the suggested offer, or not pay and hope they don't send it to collections.
Let me offer you the [ hydraulic analogy of electricity ] ( URL_7 ) , plus some attempts to answer you . It is n't perfect , but it 's very useful for understanding simple concepts of electricity . Electric current ( amperage ) is like water flow . The greater the current , more electrons are " flowing " . 1 Ampere ( 1 A ) is equals to a flow rate of 1 Coulomb per second . It does n't matter which direction electricity is flowing : it just means that through a given section of the conductor , there are 1 Coulomb of charge passing through it per second . 1 Coulomb is the charge of about 6000000000000000000 electrons . ( electrons are tiny ) A current of 1 mA ( 0.001 A ) passing through your heart directly is enough to fibrillate it , but the skin acts as an insulator ( more on that below ) so higher currents ( 50 - 100 mA , but up to 200 mA depending on some factors ) are needed . 1 mA is barely noticeable on the skin . ( I consulted [ this ] ( URL_8 ) and [ this ] ( URL_3 ) , also [ this ] ( URL_2 ) ) Electric shocks are less hazardous if taken for a brief moment , but around 10 mA is enough to make your muscles contract involuntarily , making you unable to drop an object that
Two points . 1 ) We can observe some of the physics in other galaxies . Mostly in the way they move and things of that nature . 2 ) Occam 's Razor . When solving a problem , it is best to start with the simplest solutions and work your way to more complicated solutions . It does't mean that simple is alway right , it just means that if your lunch keeps disappearing from the office fridge , you should investigate if it 's a careless coworker before investigating if it was ninjas . Unless other galaxies behave in a way that physics here do n't work , there is no reason to assume that their physics are any different .
Heh , I am answering this as I am dealing with a failed drive in our SAN . So , I will tell you how we deal with this . Our drives are arranged in what is generally called a RAID 6 setup ( my system is Solaris , where it 's called raidz2 ) . Our data is set up in disk pools , and each pool can survive up to two drive failures without losing any data at all . Yesterday , a drive in one of these pools failed . When that happened , the pool was " degraded " -- it 's still working , only a little more slowly . At that point , a spare drive in the system , which had been sitting there just waiting for a failure , was activated . Data automatically started moving to this spare drive from the other drives in the pool . This happened while I was happily asleep in my bed . When I got in yesterday , I saw the failure . For this particular pool , it would take about 24 hours for the array to rebuild itself , copying the data from the other drives to the spare . I got into work about 15 minutes ago to take a look , and this is the status : scan : resilver in progress since Mon Mar 10 07:07:38 2014 45.1 T scanned out of 47.3 T at 520M / s , 1h15
Because most bombs are either waterproof , or the water could actually trigger a detonation . The problem being , you do n't know which ! Improvised explosive device anatomy : * You have the explosive itself : Petrol , C4 , TATP , whatever . * You have a detonator : This is a small explosive charge which normally uses an electrical current to detonate , and triggers detonation of the " bulk " of the bomb , the actual explosive . * you have a trigger circuit , on timer , switch or whatever , that passes the current to the detonator to trigger the explosion . This can be complex circuitry , or a very basic hacked together circuit . So the LAST thing you want to do with an " unknown " device is chuck water at it . You could well cause the trigger mechnism to fail / engage , and detonate the explosion . In real life , water can be used to destroy bombs , but it tends to be by way of a very powerful water jet that shreds all the parts away from one another and stops the bomb from being able to detonate , or even via a [ shaped charge ] ( URL_0 ) . So water can be helpful in bomb disposal , but it 's not a case of " dunk it and hope " .
So first question : I do n't think we know what causes a person to stammer . I had serious issues with a stammer for most of my childhood and adolescence . Still stammer sometimes , just enough that other people probably notice it . Its almost always in a casual , ad hoc situation -- at the office , having dinner with friends . My breakthrough was n't professional therapy , which I did have for a few years . It was after I hit puberty and started imitating newscasters and voice actors . After months of reading scripts , starting with something simple like > " The NFL on CBS is brought to you by Chevrolet - an American Revolution and by GEICO ... 15 minutes could save you 15 % on car insurance It turned out for me that imitating the announcer 's pacing almost never resulted in a stammer . But think about how much more slowly these disembodied voice actors speak than the average person in conversation -- its on the order of 20 - 30 % . I took these observations and worked to change they way I spoke , resulting in more pronounced vowels and more pause between words . I grew up talking so quickly people often could n't understand , to now where I usually speak at a below - average to average pace , and ended up cutting the number of stammers down dramatically . I 'm pretty sure the
Month to date For the month to date (MTD), the price on Feb 28th is $4.58 and the price on March 16th is $4.61 so the return is which can be written more simply as The position is 1000 shares valued at $4580 on Feb 28th, so the profit on the month to date is Calendar year to date For the calendar year to date (YTD), the price on Dec 31st is $4.60 and the price on Feb 28th is $4.58 so the return to Feb 28th is The return from Feb 28th to March 16th is 0.655022 % so the year to date return is or more directly So the 2011 YTD profit on 1000 shares valued at $4600 on Dec 31st is Year to date starting Dec 10th For the year to date starting Dec 10th, the starting value is and the value on Dec 31st is 1000 * $4.60 = $4600 so the return is $4600 / $4510 - 1 = 0.0199557 = 1.99557 % The year to date profit is therefore Note - YTD is often understood to mean calendar year to date. To cover all the bases state both, ie "calendar YTD (2011)" and "YTD starting Dec 10th 2010". Edit further to comment For the calendar year to date, with 200 shares sold on Jan 10th with the share price at $4.58, the return from Dec 31st to Jan 10th is The return from Jan 10th to Feb 28th is The return from Feb 28th
This is how the director of the FBI put it : “ With Apple ’s new operating system , the information stored on many iPhones and other Apple devices will be encrypted by default , ” Comey told the Brookings Institute in Washington DC . “ Shortly after Apple ’s announcement , Google announced plans to follow suit with its Android operating system . This means the companies themselves wo n’t be able to unlock phones , laptops , and tablets to reveal photos , documents , email , and recordings stored within . ” “ At the outset , Apple says something that is reasonable – that it ’s not that big a deal … Apple argues , for example , that its users can back up and store much of their data in ‘ the cloud ’ and that the FBI can still access that data with lawful authority . But uploading to the cloud does n’t include all of the stored data on a bad guy ’s phone , which has the potential to create a black hole for law enforcement . ”
Let 's say we have a kind of poor , working class ( that means the people who work in the area are n't earning a whole lot of money from their jobs ) neighborhood in a city . The people there are mostly minorities , sometimes immigrants . Now , some artistic , creative people find that the hip neighborhoods in the city are just too expensive . They ca n't afford to live their and have space to do their creative things . So they start moving to the working class neighborhood , where rent is cheap and there 's a lot of space . At first , this is okay . They get along with the people there , add some interesting things to the neighborhood ( they open a coffee shop in a previously empty store , turn an empty lot into a garden , open art galleries , etc . ) . Suddenly , though , the people with money from the hip neighborhoods start hearing about all these cool things opening up in the working class neighborhood . They start traveling there to visit the restaurants , see the art galleries and music shows . This makes the neighborhood look more attractive , and soon people who are n't creatives , but like being around creatives , move in . With all these new people moving in , they cause the rents to go up , and more and more " hip " stores
I know this question has a lot of answers already, but I feel the answers are phrased either strongly against, or mildly for, co-signing. What it amounts down to is that this is a personal choice. You cannot receive reliable information as to whether or not co-signing this loan is a good move due to lack of information. The person involved is going to know the person they would be co-signing for, and the people on this site will only have their own personal preferences of experiences to draw from. You know if they are reliable, if they will be able to pay off the loan without need for the banks to come after you. This site can offer general theories, but I think it should be kept in mind that this is wholly a personal decision for the person involved, and them alone to make based on the facts that they know and we do not.
Super rough estimate here . XKCD 's what - if has already done this with the world 's ships taken out of the ocean [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . For 2.15 billion metric tons fully loaded as his estimate of the world 's fleet he got a drop in the ocean of 6 microns . A high end estimate the world 's oceanic biomass is 10 billion metric tons , and assuming the 2.15 billion tons he estimated was displacement , not raw tonnage , you can probably use the same numbers safely and just multiply by 4.65 if you assume that , on average , oceanic biomass is as dense as the water it lives in .
I was a navigator for rally racing about 10 years ago . I did open road racing ( actually based on cannonball run . ) I did both the [ Silverstate Classic ] ( URL_2 ) and the [ Pony Express ] ( URL_1 ) . Both the drivers and I knew the course , but when you 're going 150 or 160 , things look mighty different . Plus , they have too much to worry about ( road crowning , zipper strips , and planning their next 5 moves . ) [ ] ( URL_1 ) First , the driver is only there for one thing . To drive . We do EVERYTHING else - we know where we are and what 's coming next . We keep track of speed , gauges , fuel , and anything else you can think of that 's inside the car . Now I know you 're gon na say that this is n't rally racing . But there are several forms of rallys and yes , open road racing is a type of rally racing . We had a target speed we had to maintain unless we were in the unlimited class ( we were n't ) - that shit is downright scary . AVERAGING 200 mph on a highway is fucking nuts . In one race our target was 135 . That means that we could go 30 mph faster and 20 mph slower than our target , but
I 'm not read up on snapchat , but in general valuations of companies such as these are done off of potential future revenue . You 're probably telling yourself that this can get pretty arbitrary , and it is to a large extent , but there 's ways of doing it . What 's the company 's capital ( basically a fancy way of saying networth ) ? How are they earning their revenue ? How effective is that method ? If they wanted to maximize profits , what would they be able to do ? Is it sustainable ? What is their strategy ? In general , valuations like these are prone to extreme fluctuation . That value might hold for years , then some big report comes out showing how Snapchat 's business is not sustainable , and all that revenue people thought they could make is n't a reality .
It is an aphorism inspired by an experiment conducted by Stanley Milgram to measure the extent and connectivity of social networks . Known as the [ small world experiment ] ( URL_0 ) it showed that a post - card could be delivered across the continental USA simply by passing them between friends and acquaintances . As it took around five and a half or six exchanges the idea took root that we are all connected to each other by six steps through relationships , hence six degrees of separation . The experiment actually showed that * some * people are connected by an * average * of 5½ to 6 steps .
Being self employed just means you fill out some more forms in your annual self assessment for your "profit" from being self employed. Profit = all the money you receive, minus any tax deductible cost that you spent for making that money (and all the cost must be documented, which means you have a folder with all the receipts and keep it safe). You pay normal income tax on all the profit, which means it is just added to your taxable income. What you do with the profit is up to you; you don't pay yourself a salary, just take the money (make sure you leave enough to pay your taxes).
This is quite hard to ELY5 but I 'll try . I 'll give a short answer and if people are interested I 'll write a longer more scientific answer . Short answer : The long straight shaft of the hoover ensures that once the air leaves the end it is all travelling pretty much in the same direction ( straight ) and therefore takes a few metres of air to travel through before you no longer feel the push . ( This effect works like a rifle barrel ) When sucking , air enters the end from all different directions . Even if the same amount of air particles may enter the hoover as there are when leaving it , the sensation of sucking at any point will feel less as the air is being sucked from all directions , as when blowing the air is blown mostly in one direction . Think of having a torch ; if you look staright at the torch when it is on , it will be much brighter than if you took the torch parts of and stared straight at the bulb . The torch is emitting the same amount of light but without the mirrors to focus it , so it is spead out evenly in all directions rather than on one paticular point . If this answer does n't quite satisfy you I '' be happy to write part 2 and will try and explain the nature of " sucking
I simply did it on my album because it was a throwback to the 90 's . I created 13 tracks on the album , then placed 3s of blnk tracks all the way up to 98 . Track 99 had the hidden track . When people listened to they album that was one thing they mentioned : They 'd be in the car or at home listening and lulled by the album and after it 's over it just keeps playing . You forget the album is playing and you just keep doing your shit . All of a sudden , a couple minutes later , you hear sounds and music starts playing again .
For the old people , it has a lot of memories associated with it - like Christmas Day when you 're 7 or your kid is 7 . For the younger people , it still offers fantastic games that stand out - most people agree that Ocarina of Time is one of the best games ever , and pretty much the best Zelda game . GoldenEye defined split - screen FPS for years . Etc .
Fresh meats and vegetables spoil within days ; Twinkies are forever . There 's a lot of waste involved in transporting / selling fresh produce : tomatoes get bruised , bananas get overripe , raspberries - do n't get me started on raspberries ; every other pack goes moldy within a day of purchase . Yes , you could get it all frozen - and frozen veggies are generally cheaper than fresh . But you ca n't freeze * everything * , and the taste / consistency often goes all to shite . Meat gets freezer - burned and starts to taste funky . So despite added costs associated with preserving foods , there 's a * lot * less waste which makes it more affordable . A fresh tomato has a much shorter shelf - life than a can of tomato paste . Now , of course this does n't hold true for everything - notably things like rice and beans . But a diet consisting primarily of rice and beans is n't exactly a healthful option either . I 'm sure government subsidies play a non - trivial role as well , at least in the US . But the food waste associated with fresh foods is one of the biggest factors .
* * * We can * * * . We can find trace amount of pigmentation compounds in ( extremely rare ) remarkably preserved fossils . Comparing these pigments with modern birds and reptiles , we can presume same compounds = same colors . However , due to the scarcity of these remains , at this time it 's only been possible with a handful of dinosaurs so not enough to draw definitive conclusions for all dinosaurs . To my knowledge , we have no clue with T - Rex , aside from assumptions based on other apex predators ( a general trend towards camouflage , supplemented by strength and speed ) . URL_0
It 's not just about flashing lights it 's also about perspective . It does happen during movies like Blair Witch and Cloverfield , just not as often as video games . It 's called photosensitive epilepsy and for me it happens worst during first person shooter games . It includes dizziness , sweating , nausea and sometimes full on seizures . Source : I have it .
The issue arises with the usage of Q - tips . The Q - tip gets into the inner part of your ear canal , where the skin is connected to the underlying bone ( opposed to the outer part of your ear canal where there 's more connective tissue in between ) . Irritation in that area can cause an ear canal inflammation , which hurts alot
The bigger the load you put on it the harder the generator has to work and the more fuel it consumes . It will try to always spin at the same speed so when a load is applied it slows the generator which then consumes more fuel to get back up to speed and stay there The generator behaves very similarly to your car engine . If you 're cruising on the highway and the engine is running at 2500 RPM its not consuming a lot of fuel because it does n't need much power , but if you 're carrying a lot and trying to accelerate up a hill and its at 2500 RPM then it 'll consume a lot more fuel because it needs more power despite running at the same speed .
Walmart is n't in competition with itself . Items can ship directly from the manufacturer with Walmart taking a smaller cut than they would otherwise but they do n't have to ship , warehouse , ship , receive , display , and sell the items individually . Those costs add up and the difference between online prices and in store prices reflect that .
To expand on clevenmire , the 16th amendment allows for laws to be passed which collect income tax . The actual laws are collectively referred to as the Internal Revenue Code . It contains a massive amount of really complicated rules that most definitely is n't ELY5 . I believe this is it in entirety : URL_0 Now you 've seen the actual law too ! :)
It 's ideologically inconvenient . Economic conservatives oppose regulation in and of itself , and the idea that private industry is causing problems that private industry is n't likely to solve is inconvenient for those beliefs . It means they 'd either have to accept regulation or damage from private enterprise , and they 'd rather not accept either of those , so they reject the premise instead .
Hijacking this thread . While water and air are both terrible conductors of heat , they are both fluids . The molecules are circulating . With each impact of these molecules on your skin , heat is transferred from these collisions via convection . Through random Brownian motion there are currents that ecentually equalize the temperatures . You 'd think that liquids like water would be good conductors but gravity gets in the way , allowing a more efficient mechanism to take over . Convection . ( Convection is actually conduction and advection despite being seperated in terminology ) Since water is much denser than air , there are more collisions and a higher heat transfer rate . If you limit a fluid 's volume to a thin film then you mitigate the currents and get good insulators like wetsuits and window panes , because the less efficient conduction mechanism takes over . Source : Chemical Engineering classes for dayz .
They tell stories from different personas and thus are not as infringed when saying controversial or false lyrics . For example Eminem has his slim shady alter - ego that dwells into grim scenarios and psychopathy , yet it is fully understood that he is only doing so in artistic fashion . Where as someone like Rick Ross ( even though his entire character is based on someone else ) comes under heavy fire for shocking lyrics because he has no established alter ego . Also some just pickup nick names as they go along in the game , like drizzy , drizzy drake rogers , etc .
Well , you would create a time machine , and then go back to the year 1955 . After doing so you stop your parents from having sex and creating you . The result of which could cause a chain reaction that would unravel the very fabric of the space - time continuum and destroy the entire universe ! Granted , that 's worst - case scenario . The destruction might in fact be very localized , limited to merely our own galaxy . Edit : Ugh . The downvotes . Its a reference to Back to the Future .
Many here are forgetting that debit cards often also function as a Visa credit card . So , let 's make sure we 're talking about the right kind of account . There are checking accounts and credit accounts , and both can be accessed both ways . ( It 's a little trickier to access a credit account like a debit card , but I believe can be set up . I 've never tried , because the fees are awful . ) There 's also a difference in security , depending how far you trust your bank . * * Checking Accounts :* * Accessed as Debit : The bank may charge you a fee . The merchant has no control over this , and likely does n't have any way of knowing if there will be a fee . ( Ask your bank . ) Money is gone from your checking account right away , no need to pay off later , no risk of missing a payment and suffering fees . Accessed as Credit : The bank charges the vendor a small fee . Money is gone right away , no paying bills later . * * Credit accounts :* * Accessed as Credit : Bank / credit company charges the vendor a small fee . A transaction posts , recording that you must pay the creditor back later . If you miss a payment or pay late , you suffer huge penalties . Accessed as
My personal beef with Apple has always stemmed from their pushing a dependence on their products . For instance , they use proprietary ports on their machines ( the iPod cable , the Thunderbolt port ) so that the user either has to A. ) buy a device whose sole intention is Apple compatibility or B. ) find a conversion cable . It has always seemed that Apple likes to stray away from " industry standards " , opting for their own proprietary hardware / software so that third party manufacturers can make a killing and thus kick back some of those profits back to Apple . This , of course , leads into the Android vs. iOS argument , but I think the fact that almost every modern day Android phone uses microUSB , despite being manufactured by many different companies , speaks to the resistance Apple has of working towards a universality of hardware compatibility . Granted , this is a brilliant marketing strategy . Apple is raking in the dough , and it 's because they have the " cool factor " to back up their closed - system methodology . Apple users are more likely to buy legitimate software , pay for apps , pay for music , and buy specialty accessories for their Mac / iPhone . I do n't believe this has anything to do with the morality of the user , but instead I think it 's a combination of the closed system
The three way handshake is necessary so that both sides are certain they want to talk to each other . Basically it 's this sequence : A : Hey B , I want to talk to you ! B : Hey A , I got your message and I 'm ready to talk to you ! A : Hey B , I got your reply , let 's start talking ! It may seem like the third message is unnecessary , but we 're on the internet , where packets can and do get lost . If we did only two messages , then you could have a situation where B sends the second message and thinks they can start talking , but A never got that message and thinks B is not available for talking at all ( or maybe the first message got lost ) , and will therefore stop listening .
The dividend quoted on a site like the one you linked to on Yahoo shows what 1 investor owning 1 share received from the company. It is not adjusted at all for taxes. (Actually some dividend quotes are adjusted but not for taxes... see below.) It is not adjusted because most dividends are taxed as ordinary income. This means different rates for different people, and so for simplicity's sake the quotes just show what an investor would be paid. You're responsible for calculating and paying your own taxes. From the IRS website: Ordinary Dividends Ordinary (taxable) dividends are the most common type of distribution from a corporation or a mutual fund. They are paid out of earnings and profits and are ordinary income to you. This means they are not capital gains. You can assume that any dividend you receive on common or preferred stock is an ordinary dividend unless the paying corporation or mutual fund tells you otherwise. Ordinary dividends will be shown in box 1a of the Form 1099-DIV you receive. Now my disclaimer... what you see on a normal stock quote for dividend in Yahoo or Google Finance is adjusted. (Like here for GE.) Many corporations actually pay out quarterly dividends. So the number shown for a dividend will be the most recent quarterly dividend [times] 4 quarters. To find out what you would receive as an actual payment, you would need to divide GE's current $0.76 dividend by 4 quarters... $0.19. So you would receive that
Individual Pringle chips are made from flour , mashed potatoes , and spices . the resultant paste is poured into a mold and fried . So there are no leftover bits . This means that Pringles are technically not considered " potato crisps " in the UK , as they are more heavily processed than regularly sliced potato chips / crisps .
People do n't go to a shoe repair shop to get some Shoe Goo on their Nikes , they go to a shoe repair shop to get their handmade Italian loafers resoled . These are expensive shoes worn by rich businesspeople - normal people do n't even wear shoes that can be meaningfully repaired these days . As such , a cobbler can charge premium rates . These businesspeople tend to be very busy so , like drycleaners , you put your shop downtown so they can drop off and pick up their shit on the way in / out of work .
Not every domain has it . For example , Gmail is hosted on URL_0 and Google Maps is hosted on URL_1 " www " is the default * for websites * , so if you do n't specify a subdomain , it will usually send you to the same place as www . But websites are n't the whole Internet- mail servers , game servers , network printers , torrents , file shares , and more are all part of the Internet without being part of the world wide web .
The crater from the impact is more than 110 * miles * ( 180 + km ) across , and more than 12 * miles * ( 20 + km ) deep . It ejected so much material that it [ blotted out the sun for more than a year ] ( URL_0 ) , and set the sky itself on fire . Tsunamis and earthquakes rocked the planet as the entire Earth rung like a church bell . About three - quarters of * all life on the planet * died , not just the dinosaurs , but almost everything on land , in the sea , and in the air .
Hi welcome to H.C.M.Forum. you must be having sub clinical gastritis, or ulcer. or allergy to some foods or drinks. when gastric mucosa comes in contact with such allergic foods, you will have the problem. here allergen is alcohol others you must be taking along with alcohol. avoid taking alcohol for 1 month, you will find the difference.avoid taking spices,and oily foods. thank you.
While it 's probably true ( the jury is still not in ) that autism is rooted in brain chemistry that is either genetic or in - born , there is still strong evidence that a predisposition to autism may or may not present itself as actual abnormality based on environment factors in early childhood . Current believe is that certain people are more at risk , but other factors impact that risking resulting in actual autism .
1 ) We do n't have a proceedure outlined in either the Constitution or other Federal law to enact such a recall election . Only Congress could enact such a law and ( big suprise ) they are n't keen to do so . 2 ) Even if we did , given the way that districts have been drawn over the last few decades , it is HIGHLY likely that we would get the exact same types of people in Congress as we have now . No one in Congress is there by divine right - we elected many of them as little as 1 year ago ( all of the House and 1/3 of the Senate ) . 3 ) What they are doing now , however upsetting , is their exact job . They are fighting to pass the types of laws that their electorate wants passed ( and not passing those they disagree with ) . The greater issue is that we as a population do not have a unified way forward ; Congress will always represent the thoughts of the nation as a whole . * Edit : Spelling
Presumably your knife is made of atoms too , and the edge could n't be any narrower than an atom itself . So it would be like trying to cut a block of stone by hitting it with an equally sized block of stone . Needless to say it would n't be that effective . Another problem is that the atom is surrounded by a field of electrons which are going to interact with the electron field of the atoms in the knife before the nucleus . For another analogy it would be like trying to cut a golf ball in half with another golf ball , except both golf balls are inside their own separate cars . If you hit one car with the other car it is just likely to move the car around before the golf balls interact .
Sorry , I did n't see this thread when I made mine or we made them around the same time . Here is felix_dro 's partial answer in regards to superconductivity . " The electrical resistance of a material is a measure of how hard it is for electricity to flow through it . This is affected by length , thickness , what type of material it is , and temperature . The warmer the material is , the more resistive it becomes . As the temperature gets lower and lower , the resistance of that material will get closer and closer to 0 , meaning it effectively has no electrical resistance and it will become " superconductive . " There are some materials that reach this state at higher temperatures than others , but all of these currently have to be really really really cold . In the video you saw , the disc was cooled with liquid nitrogen , and will cease to be superconductive when it reaches a certain temperature . " I still do n't get the floating part , I downvoted my post and redirect people to this thread so it can hopefully be answered in one place .
Much of an artwork 's value is arbitrary , but not always . Size , media , date , edition size , condition , provenance and subject matter are all taken into account when valuing a piece of art , along with the reputation of the artist of course . Past sales results are considered , along with current climate ( how similar artists are faring ) . An artist does not need to die to raise value of their art , and in some cases it can backfire - at least in the short term . Collectors often buy up work of elderly artists , anticipating their death ( a bit macabre , but it 's true ! ) , and then flood the market . Supply exceeds demand & value drops . Artist estates can also be guilty of flooding ( eg , family members sell off large numbers of works left behind in the studio , many of which are of inferior quality ; there 's a reason those paintings did n't sell in 50 years ! ) A sensible dealer or auction house will manage the supply to heighten demand , and build up prices slowly . But you do n't have to die ! Having a major exhibition at a respected institution helps raise value , as does winning awards and participating in group exhibitions . Increasing the profile of the artist increases the price . Growing artistically & reinvention is important , too .
Most of the physical structure you see in computer components away from the actual board is for cooling purposes . You can strip most of that away and the card still functions , assuming you can keep it cool . This is also part of the reason why " gaming laptops " are treated as a joke by many PC users ; they have serious firepower on paper , but throw them a mean look and they 'll overheat .
That and they have less caffeine than a lot of other drinks , and no sugar . So the jitters that come from caffeine absent . They are loaded with B vitamins which only give you energy if you have a vitamin deficiency , which is very hard with a western diet . Some people get energy from them , but not jitters , though some do become flush .
Big blocks are heavier , contain more metal , can withstand higher compression and heat , and are also generally more durable . The blocks have the cylinders further apart . The downside is that they are big and bulky , which puts a lot of extra weight on the car or truck , and especially for front mounted engines they affect handling . Furthermore , recent advances in engine design and materials mean their benefits are largely mitigated . Edit , spel wring .
It is because spicy foods have this thing called capsaicin . What capsaicin does is bind to receptors that respond to heat . Basically your brain thinks that you have been injured by heat or abrasion . This is also why people like spicy food so much . Its not just because of things like high vitamin c. When you are hurt your body releases endorphins to make you feel better . People who eat extremely spicey foods have reported to feel small highs afterwards because of endorphins .
Since OP [ wants to understand hash functions in general , not SHA2 ] ( URL_0 ): * Take a sentence * Replace each letter with the next one in the alphabet - Hello World turns into Gdkkn Vnqkc See , gibberish is easy ( this is a very early and obviously very insecure form of encryption ) . Now , this can be decrypted quite easily , and it has the same length as what you put in . A hash is defined as a mathematical function that takes stuff of arbitrary length and turns it into output with a fixed length . Let 's build one . * Take the number 123 * Now take the letters of your text , and assign numbers to them ( just like a computer naturally does ) , lets go with the simple A=1 , B=2 , ... scheme , with 27 for space . This translates " Hello " to 8 5 12 12 15 . Now multiply the numer you currently have ( 123 ) with the first letter 's number . If the result is longer than 3 digits , only remember the last three . Repeat for the other letters : * 123 * 8 = 984 * 984 * 12 = ~~11~~808 * 808 * 12 = ~~9~~696 * 696 * 15 = ~~10~~440 Congratulations , you turned " Hello " into 440 . This is a horrible scheme ( for starters , it reacts really
There is no legit , canonical interpretation of the plot of the Phantasm franchise so far . I wrote this years ago in a discussion elsewhere so it may be phrased a bit strangely since it is out of context here , but it may be useful to you - Phantasm - Normal world , it seems , although the movie 's narrative has a kind of nonlinear and dreamy feel . Weird funeral aliens are stealing corpses and turning them into midget slaves for their screen saver planet . Phantasm 2 - The two guys from the first one are now following the funeral aliens around the country , and they keep finding abandoned towns full of like rubble and cemeteries full of exhumed corpses . This movie is even fucking spacier than the first one , and sometimes it 's hard to tell what 's supposed to be a dream and what " counts " . Phantasm 3 - Now , not only do we see that towns are being destroyed in the wake of the tall man , but that other people besides the main characters are actually witnessing it ; the kid and these weird thugs and the black chick , almost make it seem like this is some kind of post - apocalypse world where people are eking out an existence . The lady with all the kids mentions that she 's basically caring for children from the town up , where the " chemical
In addition to road speed , a mechanical automatic transmission usually has two other inputs . There is what s called a vacuum modulator . This measures the amount of vacuum inside the intake manifold , which is an easy way to measure engine load . As more load is introduced ( ie going up a hill ) the engine produces less vacuum and the transmission knows it needs to to enter a lower gear . The other input is the kick down lever / cable . This is attached to the engine throttle , and is used to detect heavy throttle application quickly . This is useful when conditions require a rapid kick down to a lower gear , like when overtaking on the highway . In an electronically controller transmission the automatic transmission uses much the same inputs ( often a couple more ) , but using electronic sensors . engine load , road speed and throttle position are still the key ones .
IIRC , the Baha'i faith holds that there is one true God , and that every " prophet " or founder of major world religions was a messenger of God providing an incomplete message , but one that would be understood by the people of that time . Krishna , the Buddha , Abraham , Jesus , and Muhammad were all revealing the True word of God , but God intentionally left the message incomplete . Sayyid Ali - Muhammad claimed that he knew the Mahdi was coming , and that he would be able to identify the Mahdi . The Mahdi is a messianic figure in twelve Shi'ite Islam who will bring a new age in which the world will be in union with the law of God . Mírzá Husayn ` Alí Núrí was the one who the Bab " prophesied , " he claimed to be the Mahdi . His teachings were written by his son , and Ali Nuri was proclaimed to be , all at once , the Mahdi ( messianic figure of Islam ) , the Matreiya ( messianic figure of Mahayana Buddhism ) , and the Messiah ( or Second coming of Christ ) . Basically , because all " universal " religions claimed that a Divinely Inspired figure would appear sometime in the future to bring forth a New Age , the Baha'u'llah ( Ali Nuri ) and the Bab asserted that this was proof that all religions were in part correct
Samurai- These people were high - class nobility . They were revered and highly respected individuals . Part of this comes from them following the code of " Bushido " , which is a strict moral code that all samurai must hold to . Ninja were assassins . They were not as respected and had no real code of ethics , since they were essentially allowed to do anything to get the job done .
If you are talking about " gastric distress " shortly after eating and find that the contents of your most recent meal have already been deposited in the toilet , its called " Gastric dumping syndrome " . Copied ( and shortened ) from wiki . Gastric dumping syndrome , or rapid gastric emptying is a condition where ingested foods bypass the stomach too rapidly and enter the small intestine largely undigested . " Early " dumping begins concurrently within 15 to 30 minutes from ingestion of a meal . Symptoms of early dumping include nausea , vomiting , bloating , cramping , diarrhea , dizziness , and fatigue . " Late " dumping happens one to three hours after eating . Symptoms of late dumping include weakness , sweating , and dizziness . Many people have both types .
It 's a place holder term . Basically the observeable universe behaves differently than our understanding would predict it would , there 's just too much gravity for all the matter we can see to account for . Scientists do n't know why so they refer to the cause of this as Dark Matter . Interestingly despite there being far too much gravity the universe is actually expanding in away that we ca n't explain , whatever causes this is referred to as Dark Energy .
HI. If you are elderly , nothing to worry about. This is a process of coating of the internal layer of the aorta by atheromatous plaques and are found in many patients without any symptoms.This may be taken as a aging process provided you do not have any medical issues. If the integrity of the aorta is normal , just forget about this. If you are still bothered , consult a Cardiologist who would ask you to undergo few tests like blood lipid profile and may advise you to take some medicines like statins to reduce this .
One of the biggest differences is the amount of random access memory ( RAM ) that is accessible to the program . RAM is the place where your programs does its work while your hard disk is where it stores your files and where the program you are using temporarily puts stuff when all available RAM is full . Think of the RAM in your computer as your desk while the hard disk on your computer as your filing cabinet . If you have a giant desk ( more RAM ) , then you can take out all of the files you need and lay them all out for easy access so that you can see it all and get your work done . If you had a small desk that only fits one file but you need many files to do your work , you can only open up one file , do some work , put the file back and get another file . You still get your work done , but you are able to get more complex work done more effectively with a large desk . Extending that analogy , if you have a giant map that you have to unfold , you can do it on a large desk , but you ca n't on a small desk . If we use your photoshop example , the 64 bit version can give you a much larger desk ( assuming your computer physically HAS lots of
A Turing machine is , first of all , a way of thinking about how a computer might work . People have come along later and built real machines that work like Turing machines , but when Alan Turing wrote about them , they were just pretend . Imagine you have a strip of paper - just tall enough for one row of letters or numbers - that goes on forever . That part makes building a real one hard , right there . The paper is divided up into little squares , each of which can hold one symbol . A Turing machine can use any symbols , but one of the things Turing proved was that you only need two : a two - symbol machine can do anything a machine with a richer alphabet can do . Usually we use 0 and 1 for the symbols . The strip of paper runs through a machine , and the machine can do one of three things : erase the symbol and write a different one , or move the tape left , or move the tape right . It 's strong paper that can be erased over and over again without ripping or making it hard to read - more practical difficulties ( some real - world ones use whiteboards ) . The important part is that the machine can decide which thing it does at any given time based on whether it 's looking at a 0
Your retirement PLAN is a lifelong plan and shouldn't be tied to your employer status. Max out your 401(k) contribution to the maximum that your employer matches (that's a 100% ROI!) and as much as you can afford. When you leave the work force rollover your 401(k) to an IRA account (e.g.: you can create an IRA account with any of the online brokerage firms Schwab, E-Trade, Sharebuilder, or go with a brick-and-mortar firm like JP Morgan, Stifel Nicolaus, etc.). You should have a plan: How much money do you need/month for your expenses? Accounting for inflation, how much is that going to be at retirement (whatever age you plan to retire)? How much money do you need to have so that 4.5% of that money will provide for your annual living expenses? That's your target retirement amount of savings. Now figure out how to get to that target. Rule #1 Invest early and invest often! The more money you can sock away early in your career the more time that money has to grow. If you aren't comfortable allocating your investments yourself then you could go with a Targeted Retirement Fund. These funds have a general "date" for retirement and the assets are allocated as appropriate for the amount of risk appropriate for the time to retirement.
They have re - entered the game in a splash . Half the price for equal or in certain scenarios better performance of their Intel counterpart . Basically all the amd fanboys have their jimmies in the air because there is a * viable * alternative now . It 's exciting . Even if you do n't like them , competition is going to be good for us .
I 'm an ophthalmologist . Your question would be more correct as " Why is the cornea more sensitive than the conjunctiva " ? The cornea is the clear curved structure that lies over the colored iris . The central opening in the iris is the pupil . The pupil is the variable sized aperture which regulates the amount of light entering the eye . The conjunctiva is a thin translucent mucous membrane which lies over the whites of the eyes ( sclera ) . Now , both the clear cornea and the opaque white screen are made up of collagen . The difference is that the cornea is important optically . The cornea is exposed to the outside world and has the greatest concentration of sensory nerves compared to anywhere else in the body . Evolutionarily , it makes sense . If a foreign body lands on your skin , no big deal . If a foreign body lands on your cornea and scratches it and you develop an infection , you could go blind . It 's not as critical over the whites of the eye . TMI , probably . I hope that was understandable .
Pretty much any dog with a slight prey drive will chase a object but still needs to be trained to bring it back . Once they learn that bringing it back will mean it 's thrown again than they will enjoy the whole process . A lot of times the dog will run around with it in their mouth and you have to call them and replace it with a treat or another toy to get them to drop it . Repeating such process until the dog learns to come to you and drop it on their own . Sometimes you have to train the dog to actually grab and hold on to the toy . Retrievers are more naturals at it while some more low energy dogs may never get into it . Drive can vary too , like my dog will play fetch at home but shows no desire to at the park sense theirs more interesting things going on .
Natural Selection is the process where some creatures who are better fit for an environment live longer and and make more babies . When we use antibiotics we kill off many bacteria and germs , but not all . This makes for less competition for the germs that are left , and they get to live longer and make more babies . The more we use antibiotics , the more we allow the resistant strains of bacteria to thrive . This leads to what we call superbugs that are immuned to antibiotics . It is also commonly accepted that bad breath comes from bacteria , and OP is suggesting that the more we use listerine , the greater our chances for allowing evolution to provide us with stronger bad breath germs that may be resistant or immuned to listerine .
Competition is undesirable . Look at the African Savannah . If every herbivore on the planes at the same thing , they 'd be competing for one resource . Pretty quickly one species would prove be superior to the rest and start crowding them into extinction ( or forcing them to adapt and evolve into a different niche ) . Let 's go back to that Savannah and take a look at some of the inhabitants . * [ this is a water buffalo ] ( URL_4 ) it 's a big , heavy animal with a broad mouth like a shovel . It evolved to indiscriminately shovel as much vegetation into it 's guts as it can . Quality does n't matter , quantity does . It 's multi chambered stomach will extract energy from even the poorest feed . * [ this is an antilope ] ( URL_0 ) check out that slender little mouth this one takes care to use it 's narrow mouth to selectively graze on the lushest grass and leaves it can find , optimum nutrition with every bite , ignore the bad stuff . * [ this is a warthog ] ( URL_1 ) , it 's basically a living bulldozer . Between it 's sensitive nose and it 's bulldozer like head , it can sniff out and dig up nutritious roots , bulbs ( , grubs and small animals ) that are out of reach for the other grazers . *
Let 's say a lock has five levers or pins . Each lever or pin might have perhaps five differs - that means five different possible shapes . That means at each position you could have one of five different combinations , but at the next one you have five also , so there are now 5X5 = 25 differs . By the time you 've got to the end of the lock you 've got 5x5x5x5x5 = 3125 . OK , some of those combinations are , for one reason or another , not used , such as one which would leave a key with no notches , or a key with a very deep notch at the near end , which would make it weak , but none the less , that 's how it works .
More interesting is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , which has almost twice as much gold . Much of it is owned by other nations . However , it seems impractical for other nations to actually withdraw their gold . What goes on in a transaction seems to be moving gold bars from one nation 's shelf to another nation 's shelf .
I think when most people talked about Reaganomics , they are talking about " tickle down economics " . Basically , means wealth will tickle down from the wealthy to the poor when they 're given a tax break . Since you 're 5 . Let 's say , your parents are struggling to pay your allowance , because the economy is bad and their hours have been cut . After venting to your friends , you 've notice this is happening to every else too . So you and your friend wrote a letter to the governor , Ricky Robert Bobby Jr. III . After reading your letter the governor decided cutting taxes for the companies and the rich to stimulate the local economy . The governor explained , " If the people on the top have more money , they can either spend the money and stimulate the economy , or use that money to hire more people . " However , months have passed and your parents are still struggling . So you finally asked your parents what happened ? They told you , the factory is closing down because the sales is down . Everyone is saving their tax break cash or paying their bills instead of spending it ( Just like the Bush Jr. tax rebates ) . Even some rich folks / companies did spend their tax breaks money , but it is not enough .
But do you know about a US state risking to go default now or in the past? Ultimately, a US state could go into default. However, I doubt that such a scenario would be allowed to transpire. This seems to happen to California with some regularity. That is, risking default. What would happen is not quite well known: "There is no provision for a state to go bankrupt," Kyser said. "I don't think anyone really knows what will happen or even if the state will go into receivership if it does default. I can tell you this, officials are looking at all the (current) laws." (source) I believe that the answer to your question is that it could happen, but likely would not be allowed to occur. The nature of the EU and US are quite different. The individual states forming the US are not separate nations. For better or for worse, the US is a stronger federation than the EU. (Something that is lamented at times when the Feds mess with the purview of the locals.)
There would be a lot less drunk teenagers acting like idiots in the US if the government did n't make such a big deal about the drinking age . If it was incorporated younger , there would n't be such a " let 's do this because it 's illegal " thing going on . Less binge drinking , imo .
Every time you get dressed , you are making a statement about how formal or informal you value the transactions of you 're day . By wearing a suit to work / a sales pitch / a funeral / a wedding / anywhere that normally requires a suit , you 're making a statement that you care enough to put in the extra effort to look the part . When I go downstairs to grab a slice of pizza across the street , I wear sweatpants and a hoodie because I 'm not trying to impress anyone . When I go to work , I wear a suit . I care about my job . I care that my superiors know that I care about my job . I care that my clients know I care about our meeting . Dressing nice is a courteous extension of formality . It 's like being polite visually .
Freakin ' magic , that 's how ! In a nutshell , a polaroid is a little envelope that contains all the chemicals needed to develop and fix the picture . Light hits chemicals that are sensitive to light , which react with reagents in a different layer that cause dyes to migrate into the first layer and become visible . Developing a photograph takes time ( the chemical reactions are n't instantaneous ) , and the first process to do instant color prints did n't work very well . The solution was to add another layer of chemicals that opacify soon after the exposure to light . This makes it dark inside the layers , and allows the time necessary for the developing and fixing process to happen without being exposed to more light . That opacifier breaks down and becomes clear after a period of time . That 's what you 're actually seeing when the polaroid comes out grey and image slowly shows up .
Growing disparity between the political class 's actions and the peoples sentiments .. in pretty much every public realm .. Also , Comedy Inc. ( possibly the Aus best skit show since Full Frontal on free to air ) was canned after just 1 series , I m pretty sure people are mad that it did nt get room to continue and develop .
A Credit Balance means that you overpayed. That's nothing to worry about; it will just be used up by your next charges. Note that this can have two reasons - either you really paid too much; or you paid off a charge that is still 'pending' - meaning it has not yet posted and is not considered in the amount you owe: Most charges in restaurants for example are pending for a day or more, because the original charge is your bill without tip (they don't know the tip when the run the card!), and the merchant spends his weekends or evenings to type in the final amount (including tip) and post the pending charge. If this is the case, it will settle ('get posted') in a day or two, and then it will match up.
My guess is : No , it does n't , because then it would be a repeating decimal . Imagine Pi would contain itself , starting at the third position after the decimal point . So it would be 3.14314314314314314314 ... , because the repetition would be part of Pi and so be also part of the first repeating sequence . Since it is proven that Pi is irrational , we know that Pi is not a repeating decimal . Furthermore , I could imagine that the statement , that Pi contains all number combinations at some point can be disproven , since it is possible to have an infinite , non - repeating series of digits with less than ten numbers . So it could be possible that some occurrence of the number 9 is the last in Pi and thus any finite series of numbers repeating Pi up to the last occurrence of 9 and * then * adding an additional 9 would be a series of digits that is not contained in Pi . My math is not good enough to write down a full - blown mathematical proof of this , I 'll leave that for others as an additional homework . ;)
ELI5 : The various ideas that Mr. Paul likes would involve changing a whole lot of things that people have gotten used to . When people get used to doing something a certain way , they usually do n't like to change , because it 's hard ( like it 's hard to instantly stop running if you 're running really fast ) . Even if things are n't going real well , people still usually do n't like to change . Sometimes that 's because they 're lazy , sometimes it 's because they 're greedy and are getting something from the system as it is , and sometimes it 's because they 're afraid if they change , then something will break . When you make changes , sometimes things break that you did n't expect . As hard as you work and as carefully as you plan , sometimes when you change stuff , things happen that you did n't plan for , and something breaks . So that makes people scared of change .
Humans are not a blank page . A human baby knows how to cry . It knows that it needs to eat . It knows that it needs to build up its immune system so it puts lots of crap in its mouth . It knows that it needs to build up motor control and muscle mass so when it 's awake , it never stops moving , and will play with things . A human toddler DOES know how to protect it 's territory . Where do you think " MINE ! MINE ! MINE ! " comes from ? And we know other things instinctively . When we feel fear it 's often because our instincts are noticing something that our brain does n't . Now this is n't always useful . Because sometimes you 'll be walking around in a bad neighborhood , and your brain will see someone who is carrying a weapon and your brain will say " OH SHIT . IT 'S A TIGER . RUN . " That 's helpful . But then , when you have to stand up in front of 200 people and say something , your brain will sometimes go " OH SHIT . IT 'S A TIGER ! RUN ! " Which is not helpful . Much of what we experience , emotions , the desire for friendship , love , lust , that 's all instinct . We 're designed to be pack hunters , so we
There is no single person responsible for leaking these pictures . On the deep web there is a site where people can buy and sell original celebrity nudes . In order to gain access to it , you need to contribute a completely original celeb nude , and you 're allowed into the site . They all use various different ways to obtain these pictures eg . social engineering , key tracking , or just plain old brute forcing . They use bitcoin to buy and sell these pictures , or they trade them . One of the members of this site decided to post some J law pictures on /b/ and included his BTC address and got a pretty penny from it . This inspired others to post their collections , so now all these people are trying to get others to give them BTC by posting teasing pictures and asking for donations , most of them claiming to be the ' original leaker ' .
Firstly , a " fifth " is the fifth note in a major scale . Play a note on a piano , then play seven notes higher ; that 's a fifth . Play that note 's fifth . Then that note 's fifth . Keep going and you eventually reach the note you started with ( albeit at a higher octave ) , hence why it 's called a circle . It 's important because it illustrates how related ( or not related as the case may be ) any key is to any given starting key . That helps a musician find a suitable key to change to , if they want to change keys . A more related key sounds smoother . Less related will create a less pleasant sounding transition . Picture it as a circle , or better yet , a 12 sided shape of equal proportions ( a dodecagon ) , each side representing a key a fifth away from its neighbouring side . You can now * visualise * which keys sound good and which sound bad in relation to any starting key , like a chart . The more related two keys are , the closer they will be on the dodecagon . Opposing sides represent the least relation . Edit : tried to clarify the last paragraph
No . It 's not the same thing . When someone else speaks , or you read something , the words are there . You are presented with a number of words , in a context , and can use all your imagination , experience and compare to other languages you know to figure out the meaning . But , if you have to create the sentences , you have to know which of all the endless possible words you are supposed to use in that language . You also have to know how to form sentences , decline words , use pronouns etc . for it to make sense . For example , you might not know beforehand that the word Kabinett is German for cabinet . But if you saw it in a German text , you would very likely understand it . But , before you read that hypothetical German text , you would n't have been able to say a German sentence involving a cabinet . In a few days , you might forget that the word was Kabinett . But if you saw or heard it again in the future , you 'd understand right away .
There are a few common pseudo - sign areas " reserved " for sign names . For instance , bringing your dominant sign hand to the opposite shoulder . Your hand will be in the shape for the first letter of your given , written name , so for instance Rhyno might be given the sign name of R tapping my left shoulder . This would be for someone who already knows what your given name is , otherwise you would finger - spell it : R - H - Y - N - O [ R - shoulder sign ] . This is for Deaf people only , usually . Capital D Deaf meaning someone who is part of the Deaf community , usually someone who learned sign as their first language , or even a hearing person with Deaf parents . Lower case d deaf is someone who might know sign , but probably grew up with hearing parents and did n't go to a school for the Deaf , maybe lost their hearing later in life after learning to speak , etc . Those who are not Deaf , usually hearing people interacting with a local Deaf community , are usually given a local sign name that is more like a nickname . For instance , when I took ASL in high school the joke was that I was always hungry , so my Deaf friend gave me the sign HUNGRY with the hand also forming the
Looking at that eye chart in a mirror that 's reflecting the actual chart mimics the 20 - feet distance that is needed for such tests . In other words , not all exam rooms have a 20 - foot distance to measure / evaluate your vision . It 's a useful work - around for a small exam room .
Someone will probably explain this better but basically your iris is the colored part of your eye . The part that 's normally blue , green , brown or Hazel . The iris is actually a muscle that contracts to let more light in . When someone 's eyes dilate , their pupil ( the black circle in the middle ) is enlarged . The pupil is actually a whole that let 's light in . So to answer your question , the more light you let in by way of your iris contacting the more exposed your retina is to light . The image , which is composed of light , gets focused your retina . Tl;dr : everything you see is light , the color part of your eye decides how much light to let in . The back of your eye ball sends focused image to your brain .
Don't be too scared of investing in the market. It has ups and downs, but over the long haul you make money in it. You can't jump in and out, just consistently add money to investments that you 1) understand and 2) trust. When I say understand, what I mean is you can follow how the money is generated, either because a company sells products, a government promises to pay back the bond, or compounding interest makes sense. You don't need to worry about the day to day details, but if you don't understand how the money is made, it isn't transparent enough and a danger could be afoot. Here are some basic rules I try (!) to follow The biggest trick is to invest what you can, and do so consistently. You can build wealth by earning more and spending less. I personally find spending less a lot easier, but earning more is pretty easy with some simple investment tools.
They are largely taking advantage that the people who decide to partake of these amenities ( a business traveler of some status ) is a different party than the one who pays for them ( the business ) . It is easier for the business controller or travel agent to just look at the base room rate to do comparisons than it is try to figure out what all amenities are likely to be purchased , so hiding the cost from that base rate into the amenities is valuable to the hotel by making the base rate look better to the people who will see and care what it is . Peon business travelers who are relegated to the cheaper hotels are probably told they wo n't be reimbursed for amenities , either . Now the person who sees the price and the person who pays the price are mostly the same person .
(I'm assuming USA tax code as this is untagged) As the comments above suggest there is no "right" answer or easy formula. The main issue is that you likely got into business to make money and if you make money consistently you will pay taxes. Reinvesting generally should be a business decision where the main concern is revenue growth and taxes are an important but secondary concern. Taxes can be complicated, but for a small LLC shouldn't be that bad. I highly recommend that you take some time closely analyze your business and personal taxes for the previous year. Once you understand the problem better, you can optimize around it. If it is a big concern, some companies buy software so they can estimate their taxes periodically through the year and make better decisions.
One of the accession rules at the moment , is you can not have any boarder disputes when you join . Russia currently occupies Crimea , so he may be trying to prevent it from joining by doing that . Of course , the NATO members could all vote to waive that rule , if they wanted to enough .
You probably live in a mostly conservative area or are surrounded by some hardcore conservatives - or watch Fox News way too much . Liberals are not despised in American politics . They are despised by a significant minority of hard core Conservatives . In reality Conservatives and Liberals have equally valid , but different ways of looking at things . To be fair , some hard core Liberals also despise Conservatives .
Descartes recognizes that the only thing he knows for certain is that he is thinking , and therefore he must exist . John Locke is recognized for his tabula rasa theory , in which the mind is a blank slate , only gathering form through experience . I suppose the union of the two ideas would be a concept of emergent complexity in thinking , but I 'm unsure what you are looking for .
Although this does n't apply to all " bad " words , one origin of commonly used swear words was the class / ethnic split between the lower class German speaking Saxons and upper class French / Latin speaking Normans of late Medieval England . Common words that were used by the lower classes were German , whereas fancier , more academic terms were based more on a mix of French and Latin . An example of this split is the word for poop . " Shit " is German in origin , whereas " defecation " is derived from Latin . * edit * : German and Germanic are interchangeable terms used by linguists and classicists to define the pre - Latin non - Celtic culture and language of ancient Europe . It has little to do with the modern day German language beyond being its direct ancestor .
Read your bill, question things that don't look familiar. People who steal credit card numbers don't bother to conceal themselves well. So if you live in Florida, and all of the sudden charges appear in Idaho, you should investigate. Keeping charge slips seems counter-productive to me. I already know that I bought gasoline from the station down the street, a slip of paper whose date may or may not align with the credit card bill is not very useful. The half-life for a stolen card is hours. So you tend to see a bunch of charges appearing quickly. If someone is stealing $20 a week from you over an extended period of time, the theif is probably someone you live or work with, and paper slips won't help you there either.
The confusion arises because three different film industries use the term ' montage ' in different ways . In American cinema , montage is a sequence of different shots used to depict one event that occurs over a long time in the form of many smaller events . So the event is " Rocky becomes a professional fighter " , and over the course of 2 minutes , you get 80 different shots of Rocky running , jumping , sparring , sweating , collapsing , drinking protein shakes , running again , all set to music , and at the end of that 2 minutes , it 's six months later and he 's in way better shape . Or the event is " Sarah gets a makeover " and over 30 seconds , you get 30 different shots of Sarah trying different clothes and haircuts . It 's basically there to speed up time . In French cinema , " montage " is just what other industries would call " editing " ; cutting , rearranging and altering the presentation of the film to change how it 's perceived . Anything more complicated than " point the camera directly at what 's going on " is French montage . If you make lots of tight cuts so it seems like actors are interrupting each other when they really were n't , the French would call it montage but everyone else would just call it editing . In Russian cinema
PSA , since we 've had to remove 80 % of the comments posted here so far : Jokes and serious comments about what a literal five year old would ask or understand are considered spam and [ are not permitted on this subreddit ] ( URL_0 ) . ELI5 is not a novelty subreddit . If you 're looking for that , try /r / explainlikeIAmA.
HR student here . The two - weeks notice time period is just the generic common law default in many jurisdictions and tends to be what is put into legislation as the default that would for most typical situations . To determine what would be a reasonable notice period that you are leaving a job would need to consider many factors such how long you worked in your current and similar positions with your current employer , how specialized your job is , the status of the local / regional job / labour market for similar positions , etc . Note that this notice principle is supposed to work both ways , ie : the employer is supposed to give you a similar amount of notice if they need to lay you off / fire your without cause ( or more commonly provide with pay in - lieu of the notice period ) based on the same factors I listed above .
Pandas have only existed for about three million years , which is really really short for a species - they have plenty of time to become extinct and have been nothing more than an evolutionary curiosity . Crocodiles have existed for some 200 million years , though that 's an unusually long time for a species to remain largely unchanged . Also , humans have only been around for about the same time as pandas .
The ocean - atmosphere system is extremely complex and there are still many unknowns , so there is no particularly simple answer to this question . But as a generalisation , it would be more correct to say that winds drive oceanic currents than the other way around . Winds have a very important impact on ocean circulation and they are the cause of the large gyres that dominate most ocean basins . The other main driver of ocean circulation is the thermohaline circulation ( driven by density differences ) . The North Atlantic is a good example that illustrates both - the Gulf Stream is largely wind - driven , whereas the large - scale sinking of cold , saline waters around Iceland is thermohaline driven . Ocean circulation does have an impact on winds . The oceans are a significant mode of heat transport on the earth so without them , the winds would be stronger . The resulting changes in heat distribution can also affect wind patterns . But generally speaking , the large - scale patterns in the wind are not really caused by ocean circulation whereas ocean circulation most definitely is controlled to a large extent by wind . Of course , the ultimate driver of both is radiation from the sun .
URL_0 ELI5 as i understand it : There are people that like the hard act of going up the Mountain , so there a probably those who also like going down the Mountain . Somebody in a Google Presentation once talked about different kinds of fun . His most loved was the one where it 's hard to accomplish something , but being able to talk about the succeed ist what makes it good , and being one of those who succeeded . Taking the easy route down probably kills alot of the Fun , after everythings over . It just is n't as spectacular . Also for Paragliding down there have to be certain weather conditions which probably are n't often met . And finally , lets say the Weather is always fine and all , why would n't people just fly up with an helicopter ? Stay for a few minutes , and then fly back ? Hope you get it , have a nice day :)
Direct Democracy is a form of political system in which all people with the right to vote can take a direct part in making the decisions . So every proposal would be voted on by all citizens . In a representative democracy , the people choose other people ( the representatives ) to vote for them . It began in small communities , first in ancient Greece ( Athens is the most famous example ) , where around the 5th century B.C. a new political system was invented in which all full citizens ( those were only rich males , who had enough time to devote to political questions , women , slaves and immigrants from other cities had no right to vote ) would debate and vote in big assemblies . However , the Athenian democracy ended finally when they were conquered by Macedonia , which was ruled by a King . In modern times , direct democracy was ( and still in some parts is ) very prominent in Switzerland . Like ancient Greece , Switzerland is made up of very small districts , the Kantone , making direct democracy practicable . Switzerland nowadays is a so - called half - direct democracy . On all political levels , they have direct - democratic elements . On the federal level , some kinds of laws have to be put to a referendum ( so that all swiss citizens get to vote on it ) , but not all
It does n't . In order to take any significant action these 5 members must agree as each has veto power : * Russia ( Formerly USSR ) * UK * US * China ( Formerly Taiwan ) * France ( for some reason ) When you get those 5 to all agree on something , let me know .
America made the electoral college because a majority of the population were uneducated at the time . This prevented inadequate candidates from winning the election . Now a majority of Americans ARE educated so obviously we do n't need the electoral college any more . We are willing to transition the method of picking the president , but we can not decide on which method to change it to . There are currently four popular methods : the district electoral college method , the national bonus method , the proportional method , and the last one where the winner of the popular vote wins the election plain and simple . Here are [ 6 proposed plans ] ( URL_0 ) , the ones I mentioned are # 2,3,4 , & 5
It 's the theoretical " natural " unemployment rate . You can never reach an economy where everyone is working , because people will always be quitting to find a better job or getting fired . 5 % is the rate at which the unemployment is due to individuals , not the overall economy . Keep in mind , the " unemployment " rate is n't the percentage of the population without a job , it 's the percentage of the population who can work and are looking for a job . People who are retired or decide to retire do n't count .
Seems like these are n't really answers for a five year old , so I will chime in . In State College , PA , football is life and life is football and Joe Paterno was a god . He had power over everyone and everything about Penn State and could do as he pleased . He found out about one of his coaches raping boys in the locker room from another coach that WITNESSED it . Now , with all his godlike power , you would assume you would do the right thing . Turn in Sandusky and help the children that he raped . But , instead of helping the victims and fixing the problem by having his coach arrested , he turned his back and let everything to continue for over a decade . Things like this occur because people in power do nothing and let the secret continue . Secrecy and the will power to do nothing are the two things that allow child molestation to continue to occur , especially in one place . So Joe Pa did nothing when he should have let the world know his coach is a pedophile . Edit : The punishment was just because the area needs a culture change . No sport program should ever have that kind of power like it did at Penn State .
> How can a current source deliver current but no voltage since voltage source provides voltage and current . It does n't . A current source provides a fixed current at whatever voltage necessary to reach that current ( up to a maximum voltage ) A voltage source provides a fixed voltage at whatever current necessary Your wall outlet is a voltage source . It provides a stable voltage and the device draws however much current it needs Lightning is a fixed current source . It provides a million amps at up to a few hundred million volts . If something is struck by lightning then a huge current flows through it , the voltage across it depends on it 's resistance
It is thought the main reason dogs wag their tails has to do with the smell their anal gland produces . When the dog is comfortable in his / her surroundings , wagging their tail stimulates their anal gland and spreads their scent around the area , signifying to other dogs that they are comfortable . The opposite goes for when a dog is scared - it puts its tail between its legs to cover its anal gland , limiting the amount of scent that escapes , which helps it to ' hide ' from other dogs ( they ca nt smell the dog as easily ) . So yeah , it 's all to do with their ass .
I work at a shipping and receiving warehouse and it 's company policy that anybody entering the facility needs high visibility clothing on , due to the towmotors driving around and such . This rule also extends to outside our dock area where there 's other semi trucks driving around . It 's just because as a truck driver your typically going to be in situations where you want to be visible and not ran over by something
Disorders are really hard to classify . One common criterion is that it be something that causes distress or difficulty in someone 's daily life that * is n't * caused by societal factors . So , like ... if you have depression , it makes your life worse . It has nothing to do with other people , being depressed is just shitty . It can often suck to be gay too . However , it 's not because being gay inherently makes you unhappy . It 's usually because people are homophobic , though . That 's someone * else 's * issue , not the gay person 's .
Oh , they are completely aware of the fact that they 're selling more ticktes than they have places . But airlines do n't expect everyone who bought a ticket to actually get on the plane . For example because people might miss their flights . Airlines have statistics and can judge how many people ( on average ) wo n't actually claim their seat on any given airplane . However as airplanes do n't want to fly with empty seats , they sell more tickets than they have places . Hope this helps !
I think the ELI5 is that the face is a quick ' summary ' of a person 's overall health . From the face you can tell a person 's age , sex , and general health , confidence and current emotional state . Studies also show that face of men and women who are very stressed are deemed less attractive than men and women who are less stressed . Being stressed releases stress hormones(cortisol ) , which over time shape the face differently . They did a study where they took a neutral male face and modified it to look like how he would if he had higher cortisol levels and women deemed it less attractive . Having high cortisol is associated with higher body fat% .
Intelligence / creative insight . That 's about it . We 're not as physically robust or strong , and while we can run almost any animal on the planet to exhaustion , we do n't have all that great agility in short - term bouts compared to other animals ; our ability to wield weapons and fire is what distinguished us .
To expand on what the robbob009 has said , men tend to be stronger because it 's a more efficient allocation of resources and because it offsets sunk costs . There is something of a problem in evolution called " the cost of males . " This refers to the fact that in most species , most males have few or no offspring and others have many ( high variance ) , while almost every female has as many offspring as she feasibly can ( low variance ) . If fewer men can get the job done , why do equal numbers of males and females persist ? One answer is diversity : sexual reproduction offers increased genetic recombination , which is adaptive . Additionally , in social animals such as primates , one could argue that the increased size and strength of males confers benefits that enhance the fitness of their social group ( group or kin selection ) . Edit : also worth adding to this list is that women engaging in strenuous physical activity while pregnant can put the baby in jeopardy , whereas the commitment of males to reproduction in many cases ends at conception . It 's important to note that when answering evolutionary questions , legacy is a huge factor . In many species of animals , females are larger and stronger . These " decisions " are n't made on a species - by - species basis , rather this is just something
/u / daddytwofoot gave one of the best explanations I 've ever heard . I 'll explain this in a based off of tabs . A C chord looks like this . The notes in parenthesis are the notes that are being played . E B- 5 ( E ) G- 5 ( C ) D- 5 ( G ) A- 3 ( C ) E The scale for a C chord is played with these notes , in this order : C D E F G A B A basic chord is made up of the 1st , 3rd and 5th note in the scale . In this case , it would be C , E and G. The only difference between a 7th chord and a basic chord is that a 7th chord adds in the 7th note in the scale , which in this case is B. A major 7th chord , written like Cmaj7 is the simply adding the 7th note of the major scale in , which is B. The note comes out as C E G B. The same is done for minor chords . Cmin7 is no different except it utilizes the C minor scale instead of the C major scale . Whenever you read C7 , it 's talking about a dominant 7th chord , which is the flat ( or half step lower ) of the 7th note . C E G B becomes C E G Bb . This is
Imagine a man wearing a suit of armor and people shooting things at him- mostly arrows and little rocks from slingshots . They all bounce off . Okay , now comes along an arrow that does n't actually harm you in any way , but as an arrow , it 's job is to strip your armor off . And you ca n't ever put it back on . Now , if without your armor , you can avoid ever getting hit again , the loss of armor does n't matter . But if you do get hit , there 's a good likelihood it 'll kill you , whereas it would n't have killed you if you had armor . HIV does n't kill you . HIV takes away your ability to defend yourself on a cellular level from bacteria and viruses . Magic Johnson is HIV+ , but rich enough to blast himself with antibacterials and antivirals so he 'll never get sick .
to know this , you have to understand intrest in the context of a loan . intrest is a percentage of a loan that is added to the amount you owe , so someone ( a bank ) does not have to lend you money for free . for example , if i borrowed $ 100 at 10 % intrest , the amount i owe would increase by 10 % until i paid it off . with 0 % financing , the intrest rate is 0 % , so the amount you owe does not increase .
This is like asking , what would living in a the world look like if water was poisonous to humans ? Layman might start speculating how there would be no cities near oceans or how we would have special defenses against rain / snow , but the fact is , if water was poisonous to humans then everything we know about life and evolution would be different ... in some sense , all of biology would be broken ... even stuff about dinosaurs that have ( seemingly ) nothing to do with humans . If pi were rational ( all decimals that terminate are representations of rational numbers ) then all of mathematics would be broken .
Polygamy is bad news for a few reasons . It is n't illegal all over the world . And there are parts of the US where it is underground . In the US , those areas have an alarming number of teenage boys who are cast out of their homes and communities . The older males see them as competition for the younger women . There are orphanages / homes in Utah , Arizona , etc ... dedicated to these lost boys . You 'll also get teenage girls who run from home when they know they may be forced into an arranged polygamist marriage . In the Middle East , many countries allow polygamy . And , like in those areas of the US , they have an over - abundance of young , unmarried men . And statistics tell you that a lot of unmarried , unemployed young men leads to spikes in crime . These young men will often acquire a very skewed image of women as well from their growing frustrations . Older men have the money for multiple wives . And the rich guys are n't going for cougars . They go for the younger women . Polygamy , in one sense , is a way for richer , older men to produce more offspring . And , often in these cultures , women have little say in joining into such relationships . Their families often force it on them because they see the rich
It depends on how closely you want to look . It 's possible that you could get two flakes with the same physical structure on a macroscopic scale . It 's not possible that you 'd get two that had exactly the same arrangement of atoms , particularly when you take into account the isotopes of the elements contained in each . URL_0
States do n't want manufacturers selling directly to customers ( which is what Tesla does ) because it limits the amount of tax revenue a state can generate . Tesla is effectively eliminating the dealership middle - man -- and therefore eliminating a significant source of revenue for the state ( employee , business , and sales taxes ) . Is it right -- probably not , but most governments get really upset when sources of taxable revenue are cut . Edit since this seems to be getting some traction : I have n't read any of the evidence one way or another that says the dealership model is better than the Tesla model or not . Just stating facts , and my opinion that limiting how a business sells to it 's customers is probably not in the spirit of free market . Also , for those who are asking , the reason other companies get to sell directly to consumers ( like Apple ) is because the laws explicitly state " automobiles " and not " all consumer products "
Circumscription is a non-monotonic logic created by John McCarthy to formalize the common sense assumption that things are as expected unless otherwise specified. Circumscription was later used by McCarthy in an attempt to solve the frame problem. To implement circumscription in its initial formulation, McCarthy augmented first-order logic to allow the minimization of the extension of some predicates, where the extension of a predicate is the set of tuples of values the predicate is true on. This minimization is similar to the closed-world assumption that what is not known to be true is false. The original problem considered by McCarthy was that of missionaries and cannibals: there are three missionaries and three cannibals on one bank of a river; they have to cross the river using a boat that can only take two, with the additional constraint that cannibals must never outnumber the missionaries on either bank (as otherwise the missionaries would be killed and, presumably, eaten). The problem considered by McCarthy was not that of finding a sequence of steps to reach the goal (the article on the missionaries and cannibals problem contains one such solution), but rather that of excluding conditions that are not explicitly stated. For example, the solution "go half a mile south and cross the river on the bridge" is intuitively not valid because the statement of the problem does not mention such a bridge. On the other hand, the existence of this bridge is not excluded by the statement of the problem either. That
They did n't make the command line different . They made * Windows * different . The command line came first . DOS ( Disk Operating System ) , which Windows was built on top of , was just a command line , and there was no CTRL+C / CTRL+V for copy and paste . As for why they have n't modified the command line to use standard Windows keyboard shortcuts , CTRL - C is the " break " key in the command line ( it forcibly stops the currently - executing program ) , and changing it to do something else would potentially cause tons of programs that interact with the command line to have to be rewritten , which is a headache that Microsoft does n't want to deal with the backlash from .
There were a few factors . The first , and probably the most important , is that XP came just over a year later and murdered it . Unlike Windows Vista , it never really ended up having a chance to have many of its issues worked out before consumers migrated . In terms of the problems that it faced , it was slow . Very , very slow . It 's infamous for having had some memory leaks on launch that made it unstable . Unlike Vista or XP , which also had some performance complaints , it failed to deliver other features users were interested in . Security was still bad , there was still a gap between Windows NT and DOS - based systems , and , most damningly of all , it broke compatibility with many DOS - based applications . The biggest thing to remember , though , is that it was preceded by the much better Windows 98 SE and followed by the also much better Windows XP . Its inability to show significant improvements to justify its cost and issues was the factor that killed its public perception moreso than any of the things that were actually wrong with it . edit : In terms of the constant horror stories that you hear on the Internet , they 're more meme than anything . Windows ME was only out for about a year before XP completely erased it , most users never bothered
These days they can reach so close to absolute zero that two decimal places of degrees is hopelessly inaccurate . I think they 're down to less than a nano Kelvin in the labs now , i.e. , -273.149999999 ° C . Kelvin and Celsius are defined so that absolute zero is exactly at 0 K and -273.15 ° C , so the smart but uninteresting answer is : because the metric system defines them to be so . Lord Kelvin used the relationship between gas pressure and temperature . The theory is that pressure is proportional to temperature so you can graph the pressure over as wide a range of temperatures as you can manage and then extrapolate the straight line you should see down to zero pressure . That tells you what zero temperature should be .
Even though the caffeine in Tea , Coffee and some soft drinks is a diuretic there should still be enough water within the drinks to offset any caffeine effects . It could be worth looking at underlying health issues . Diabetes causes increased urination if you have sugary drinks . So maybe assess the colour of your urine . If it is a dark colour , especially first thing in the morning , might make it worth getting a check - up .
* * Advantages of Unions * * Unions empower workers from being exploited by their boss . A boss of a factory will make more money if he pays his employees less . He has the power to pay his employees less because he controls the payroll . Therefore he will pay his workers less . * * * Unions block exploitation * * * . The workers realized this so they came together -- they made a " union " . This union of workers are more powerful as a group than any one worker . They say to their boss , " if you lower our pay , we will not work for you " . The boss will do two things : * He listens . Here , the workers get to keep the same wage . * He does n't listen . Here , the workers strike and it is a showdown to see who gives in first . If the boss wants to talk with his workers to agree on a different level of pay , they go into " collective bargaining " . Unions could protect both wages and benefits ( healthcare , dental care , etc . ) through collective bargaining . But ca n't the boss just hire some more people if his workers go on strike and refuse to work ? Legally , no . By law in some types of jobs ( electrical work , construction ) , you *
Because there is no air on the moon , a normal flag would simply drop against the pole . To avoid this , an other pole ran along the top of the flag allowing it to stay up . However when deploying the flag the two poles did not click into place properly leaving the flag at a slight angle and introducing a ripple into the cloth . NASA liked the look and kept this " feature " for future missions In addition , the pole was designed to be driven into the lunar dust , but a much harder layer was found a few inches below the dust so the flag had to be twisted into the ground , this setup an oscillating motion in the flag which lasted longer and was more pronounced due to being in a vacuum .
- Personal planners , like the Covey planner or Google calendar , can be a big help . - CEOs , administrators , and military leaders often have administrative assistants whose sole job it is to keep their calendars , prevent conflicts , and keep them up to date with their own schedules . - Delegation is a critical skill the more responsibility you have . Being able to assess what needs to be done now , what needs to be done later , what can be done by someone else , and what needs personal attention is crucial .
Toughened or tempered safety glass is very difficult to work with . It ca n't be cut to size or drilled , it has to be made to order the specific shape needed . The plastic layer in laminated safety glass affects the optics and working with it . And in general , you ca n't really get everything in one kind of glass . For lab glassware heat resistance and chemical inertness are usually most important , borosilicate glass ( ' pyrex ' ) is good for that . Some uses need it to be shaped when heated though , for example to make ' glass welds ' , so ordinary soda - lime glass is used for that . For cars , impact resistance is important . For camera lenses , optical properties are paramount . And so on .
You 're the lucky first one ! Generally it means that if your state approves of your gay marriage the federal government must recognize it as well . This does n't mean gay marriage is legal everywhere , but it means gay marriage , where it 's legal , will be more equal than it was before this ruling .
There seems to be a lot of confusion regarding terms like * sex , race , gender , orientation ... * SEX : Your biological sex is determined by chromosomes . Most people are born XY ( male ) or XX ( female ) but some people can be born Intersex where their chromosomes do not match up with their external ( testes / ovaries ) or internal ( penis / vagina ) sex characteristics . GENDER : Who you subjectively define yourself as . Typically either as " feminine " or " masculine " . What constitutes these two dichotomous classifications is largely influenced by culture . What is considered " feminine " in America , may not be be in India . A person may not feel they have a gender identity or they may feel they are somewhere in between masculine and feminine . ORIENTATION : Who you like sexually . You may like men ( sex ) or women ( sex ) , or both or neither . You may like feminine ( gender ) individuals or masculine ( gender ) individuals or you may not have a preference . * * Gender is who you go into bed as . Orientation is who you want to go to bed with . * * Race : Is a socio - cultural classification system of people that is not relevant to biology . Biologists , scientists , anthropologists DO NOT use racial classifications because racial classifications involve
The beauty of digital media is that the data will stay unchanged throughout multiple copies and multiple plays , it will not decay and will not get damaged . Digital remastering is often simply the removal of noise ( in a scientific context , * noise * is a word used for data that has no information , and is therefore useless , cluttering up the real information ) . For music , * noise * is [ literally noise ] ( URL_0 ) , and through the use of computer algorithms , it can efficiently be removed . Then the audio can be rebalanced if needed , adding more bass , or making everything comparatively louder , whatever you want it to be . For video , you can also remove noise , like film grain , rebalance the colours using computer software akin to photoshop , do anything you can do to a video file on a computer .
Hi! thanks for writing to HCM sharing your health concerns!After going through your history of breast cancer, its treatment, prognostic markers and the lump in an unusual location like ankle bone, I would like to consider few possibilities like:1. a benign tumor or tumor-like condition for example ganglion, neurofibroma, osteoma, bursa etc...90% possibility2. metastatic cancer possibility: 10% but really unfortunate as you are under treatment for a triple positive good prognostic group for breast cancer! Therefore, you must see a your consultant doctor today for a close detailed examination and a simple needle biopsy to relieve your concerns!Hope this helps you..Regards,
Survival of the fittest is really an outmoded concept . Nature does n't pick only the strongest / fastest / smartest . Survival of the " good enough " is more realistic . And what constitutes good enough changes both with environment and time , there 's no ' ultimate ' goal to which evolution is advancing . Something extremely fit and useful today could be a huge detriment tomorrow .
On a very low level they are basically the same . They use electromagnetic waves in specific frequencies to transmit data by modulating those waves . In modern cases , there is little inference between those two , as bluetooth generally still uses the 2.4ghz band while modern Wi - Fi signals use the 5ghz band . Wi - Fi connections using the old g / b standards are also sending on the 2.4ghz band . For Bluetooth this is 2400mhz to 2483.5mhz . The first 2mhz and the last 3.5mhz are a guard band . The closer two different signals are at the same frequency , the more likely it becomes that they interfere with eachother . Having some space at the bottom and top of the standard frequency used spaces different signals a bit out . After that it uses alot of 1mhz channels for transmitting data , trying to find some that is free . Should be ~80 channels . The bigger the channel band , the more data you can modulate into it , so bigger bands often means higher transfer rates . At the same time , bigger channel bands also mean more sources can interfere with the data ( as it is more likely that a random signal has the same frequency ) . So , with many 1mhz channels you can not transmit data ultra fast , but you can have many devices in a small area ( imagine a heavy traffic and
I have wondered about this for a long time . After extensive Googling and reading all previous threads I could find on this topic on both ELI5 and AskScience , I found 95 % anecdotes ( " I do n't know , but I get these too ! " ) and maybe 5 % attempts to answer this . The only concensus seems to be : -It is most likely caused by a mutation in your hair follicle that causes the hair to grow out of control ( and often , to be very thin and white ) similar to what happens in cancer cells , but fortunately benign . -Most people who tried to explain this said that they did n't think the hairs could be growing that much faster than a regular hair and we must simply not notice them until they are very long . Conclusion : I think we need someone to research this phenomenon so we can get some answers .
Most modern electronic devices require DC to operate . Simple devices like motors and heaters ( light bulbs , vacuum cleaners , washing machines , etc ) can run on AC but electronics ca n't . You ca n't design electronic devices to run on AC ; it 's fundamental to how they work that they run on low - voltage DC . Houses have AC supplies because high voltage electricity is more efficient to transmit , and it 's easy to convert high voltage AC to low voltage AC using a transformer , but high voltage DC is more difficult and expensive to convert to low voltage DC .
He 'll get hanged next week ( Monday through Friday ) on a day he wo n't expect . But if he 's still alive on Thursday then he 'd know that Friday is the day of the hanging because it 's the last possible day it could be . But since he 'd expect it to be Friday then it ca n't be Friday . So if it 's not Friday , then Thursday is the last possible day it could be . Except , if he 's still alive on Wednesday then he 'd know he 's to be killed on Thursday , so it ca n't be Thursday either . If it 's not Thursday , then if he 's alive on Tuesday then he 'd expect it on Wednesday , so it ca n't be Wednesday . By the same reasoning it ca n't be Tuesday . That only leaves Monday as the only possible day of the hanging , except now he expects it to be on Monday ( having eliminated the rest ) which means it ca n't be Monday either . The prisoner 's error is that he essentially says " I 'll expect to be hung every day , so there can be no surprise , so that means I 'll never be hanged . " At that point , he stops expecting the hanging which means all days become a possibility again .
Notepad ( and other programs ) assume they 're opening text files with 8 bits per character . So they take the first 8 bits of the file and look up what that character is and so on . An application file is n't actually text so many of the 8 - bit blocks will not correspond to a real character ( the gibberish ) or will be random letters / numbers / symbols .
We bought the CPU to be used , not to sit idle . If one program wants all of the CPU and no other programs want any , why would the program that wants it not be given it ? The CPU does n't have inertia . If someone else comes along and asks for CPU , it can be taken away from the first process in a tiny fraction of a second .
In short , it does n't . Yes caffiene is a diuretic , and yes coffee will speed along you kidney function resulting in increased urinary output . * * BUT * * coffee is still mostly water . Even taking into account the increased urinary production rate , the net effect is hydration not dehydration . [ Huffington Post Article . ] ( URL_1 ) [ NY Times Artice . ] ( URL_0 ) [ Mayo Clinic Article . ] ( URL_4 ) [ WebMD Article . ] ( URL_2 ) I can try and find a few more sciency articles if you 'd prefer , but it 's pretty well established now that coffee ( and similar caffeinated bevarages ) do n't cause dehydration . * * EDIT :* * Found a scholarly article too , focuses on the effect of [ Caffeine on body - fluid electrolyte balance ( basically hydration ) , and exercise and performance . ] ( URL_3 ) The particular excert of interest , from the abstract : > The scientific literature suggests that athletes and recreational enthusiasts will not incur detrimental fluid - electrolyte imbalances if they consume CB [ caffeinated beverages ] in moderation and eat a typical U.S. diet . Sedentary members of the general public should be a less risk than athletes because their fluid losses via sweating are smaller .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about U.S. constitutional rights regarding religion . The first thing to realize is that there is no blanket " separation of church and state . " That phrase appears nowhere in the constitution . Rather , the constitution provides the following two religious freedoms , both found in the First Amendment . * * * The Establishment Clause * * provides that Congress shall make no laws effecting the establishment of a religion . In lay terms , that means that the government ca n't pass laws that promote certain religions over others . The test determining whether a law violates the Establishment Clause is called the Lemon test . Under the Lemon test , a law must ( i ) have a secular purpose ; ( ii ) must not have the * primary * effect of enhancing or penalizing any religion ; and ( iii ) must not result in the government 's excessive entanglement with religion . * The * * Free Exercise Clause * * prohibits the government from limiting your ability to practice the religion of your choosing . The government can not pass laws targeting certain religious practices . But it can pass laws that incidentally affect people 's religious practices if the law serves a legitimate governmental function , and if it 's neutrally applied . For example , a state can ban * all * use of psychadelic mushrooms even if taking those mushrooms is part
It 's a pretty terrible quote , frankly . But there are two important things you need to know about to understand this : baryogenesis and nucleosynthesis . Settle down , I 'm gon na explain them . You 've heard of protons , yeah ? Protons are one of the three particles that atoms are made of . Protons are particles called * baryons * ; a protons is one type of baryon . There 's another type of baryon that 's also important : It 's called a neutron . There are about a * zillion * other types of baryons that * are n't * important to us right now , but take all of these things collectively and we call them baryons . Baryons are not elementary things . That is , they 're things which are made of other things . What are they made of ? A variety of particles that are called * quarks . * The question , then , is how did quarks * initially * get together to make baryons ? Or in other words , how did the first baryons come to exist ? The answer is the Big Bang . The Big Bang was the earliest period in the history of the universe , lasting from * zero * — what we call the time of the very first event that ever happened — to about 400,000 years later . Early on in the Big Bang , the
Well everyone here is n't wrong to say things like it 's reflective and whatever , that 's not really the reason for the first stage of launch systems . ( Or any other stages that are dropped during the main ascent . ) It 's largely stylistic or just whatever colour it 'd end up normally in manufacturing if it 's something that does n't need to last into space .
Different bonds (and securitized mortgages are bonds) that have similar average lives tend to have similar yields (or at least trade at predictable yield spreads from one another). So, why does a 30 year mortgage not trade in lock-step with 30-year Treasuries? First a little introduction: Mortgages are pooled together into bundles and securitized by the Federal Agencies: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae. Investors make assumptions about the prepayments expected for the mortgages in those pools. As explained below: those assumptions show that mortgages tend to have an average life similar to 10-year Treasury Notes. 100% PSA, a so-called average rate of prepayment, means that the prepayment increases linearly from 0% to 6% over the first 30 months of the mortgage. After the first 30 months, mortgages are assumed to prepay at 6% per year. This assumption comes from the fact that people are relatively unlikely to prepay their mortgage in the first 2 1/2 years of the mortgage's life. See the graph below. The faster the repayments the shorter the average life of the mortgage. With 150% PSA a mortgage has an average life of nine years. On average your investment will be returned within 9 years. Some of it will be returned earlier, and some of it later. This return of interest and principal is shown in the graph below: The typical investor in a mortgage receives 100% of this investment back within approximately 10 years, therefore mortgages trade in step with 10 year Treasury Notes.
Wolters Kluwer N.V. (Euronext Amsterdam: WKL ) is a Dutch information services company. The company is headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands (Global) and Philadelphia, United States (corporate). Wolters Kluwer in its current form was founded in 1987 with a merger between Kluwer Publishers and Wolters Samsom. The company serves legal, business, tax, accounting, finance, audit, risk, compliance, and healthcare markets. It operates in over 150 countries.
Our eyes are " calibrated " for the index of refraction in air . When a ray of light passes from air into the lens of our eye , the change in the index of refraction of air to that of the lens bends it just the right amount to focus it properly on your retina . The amount of bend is determined by the difference in the index of refraction between the two mediums ( air and lens ) . Because water has a different index of refraction , when light passes from water into your lens the lens does n't bend the light enough to focus properly on your retina . Goggles fix this by letting the light transition from water to a little bit of air through a flat surface , which minimizes distortion from that change . Then the light proceeds to your eyeball through the normal air - lens transition , and everything looks good .
Let me ask you another question: if that person stayed at home and made a widget instead, would exporting that widget benefit his home country? There is no difference, economically, between the two situations. A foreign worker sending home remittances is no different from a local manufacturer exporting their products. Both are earning export dollars for themselves and their home countries. Is this a good thing or a bad thing? Clearly, the answer is yes - this is a good thing or a bad thing but we cannot know which in isolation. However, in general, foreign worker remittances are overwhelmingly beneficial for the host (which gets work done that otherwise would not be done) and the source (which gets export income. With reference to your particular question about local inflation, a rise in exports causes appreciation in the exchange rate i.e. local currency becomes more expensive with respect to (in this case) the Euro. Appreciation in the exchange rate actually puts downward pressure on inflation. However, the absence of our worker from the local economy puts upward pressure on local wages and and hence inflation. Both of these effects are small and other factors will dominate them.
Most speech to text software works based on machine learning algorithms that use statistics . The gist of it is that you can " teach " computer software to become good at pattern matching . By analyzing the wave pattern of the sound you make when you say words , and by telling the computer what the word is for each pattern , you can train the computer software to match a sound pattern to a word . So if you have a large amount of voice clips , and someone has transcribed all those clips , you have created something called " training data " , which you can feed into the software to teach it how to match those patterns . Accents will effect the probability of matching if the software was n't trained with recordings of accents . But that 's easily fixable by adding accented data to the training data .
If they stole your actual social security card , they have your name , and they can find more info from there . If they have your social number , they can still most likely obtain your name , birthday , credit score , etc . If you ever have your social stolen , you can contact the social security administration and let them know . They 'll let you do several extra free credit reports per year for a period of time so that you can keep an eye out on it .
Every version is " The Bible . " The better question is which one is more accurate . Some people feel The King James version is most authoritative . A basic Wikipedia search does not tell me why people feel that way ( I suspect that it is based off of tradition . ) The most accurate Bible in literal translation is somewhat difficult to understand because the idioms from the original culture are foreign to us . A thematic translation ( NIV ) would try to convey the original meaning , even if the words change during translation . This link provides a bit of explanation of what I 'm trying to say : URL_0 I personally prefer NIV because of clarity .
Your body balances the water in the blood , the cells , and the spaces in between . A small amount stays in the intestines to help digestion while most is absorbed into the body across tiny pores . When the water crosses the pores it also helps transport vital electrolytes into your body . Then the water enters the blood stream and quickly reaches a balance with the other spaces : the insides of cells and in between the cells . The kidneys use the water in your blood to filter the waste products into urine . Some water even goes back into the lower intestines to help make stool .
Back in 2004 Japanese scientists did exactly that with mice . They created offspring from two different females and even went so far as to do the same thing with two different males . AFAIK the experiments have n't been repeated ( but then again I have n't searched that hard either ) but I would be very interested to see it if it ever is . The most notable thing about it was that the offspring created from two females had 30 % longer life spans than naturally made mice . * I actually have n't read up on it since it was done 14 years ago so there could be new data long since released about it or anything that could have potentially been falsified could be exposed . *
You undoubtedly see very young crows , but do n't realize it . The tiny ones are still in their nests , and by the time they are able to fly / explore , they are about the size of an adult . They are a bit duller and their beaks are a bit stubbier , but they are easy to recognise if you know what to look for . Baby for animals is n't necessarily what we view as baby for humans .
Tables typically are numbered in a restaurant , just the numbers are on charts the staff uses to refer to the tables and thus are not visible to customers . You sometimes may see your host or hostess with the chart when they are looking to see if there 's an open table for you . The waiters and waitresses know the numbers of the tables they are in charge of and will write it down when taking your order .
My simple response is that you just do n't understand unless you play games like WoW , Ultima Online , or , to a lesser extent , Civilization . A more detailed response might be hashed out by someone who can elaborate on any sort of study that 's been done on the subject of addictive gaming , but I tend to believe that any game with an element of " leveling up " is what gives it its addicting appeal . The draw in games like WoW is that they do n’t “ end ” in the sense that you beat a final boss and the credits roll . In MMORPGs ( massively multiplayer online role - playing games ) , not only do you live vicariously through your avatar and interact with other players , but virtually every element of your in - game experience can be enhanced and broadened by leveling up attributes , skills , weapons , etc . , and there ’s really no end to how far a player can go with this . Such games are all about “ just one more quest ... ; ” “ just one more percentage point of skill earned ... ; ” “ ‘ just one more turn ... ” It all comes down to time , and hours can roll past by the click of mouse before you realize that you have n’t eaten in half a day and your eyelids are made of cardboard .
I suspect ( though I am really just pulling this out of my ass ) that it 's not really that they need you to turn it off . I think it 's more like , take - off / landing are the most dangerous parts of a flight , and they want everyone to be prepared for an emergency . But if they * said * " be prepared for an emergency " , then people would panic
Microsoft Translator is a multilingual machine translation cloud service provided by Microsoft. Microsoft Translator is a part of Microsoft Cognitive Services and integrated across multiple consumer, developer, and enterprise products; including Bing, Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Microsoft Edge, Microsoft Lync, Yammer, Skype Translator, Visual Studio, and Microsoft Translator apps for Windows, Windows Phone, iPhone and Apple Watch, and Android phone and Android Wear. Microsoft Translator also offers text and speech translation through cloud services for businesses. Service for text translation via the Translator Text API ranges from a free tier supporting two million characters per month to paid tiers supporting billions of characters per month. Speech translation via Microsoft Speech services is offered based on time of the audio stream. The service supports text translation between 110 languages and language varieties as of December 2022. It also supports several speech translation systems that currently power the Microsoft Translator live conversation feature, Skype Translator, and Skype for Windows Desktop, and the Microsoft Translator Apps for iOS and Android.
They mostly fall around the winter solstice . Most religions in the world , have events around the 2 solstice and 2 equinox . Also Pancha Ganapati is a recently made up holiday , so it does n't really count . Fall equinox is near time of harvest , weather is still good , food is plentiful . Halloween ( a month later ) , Diwali , Feast of Saints Michael , Gabriel and Raphael , Archangels . Winter solstice the rough times are almost over . Spring equinox is also another major one , easter , holi , time to plant crop , raise the young livestock , etc .
It 's just a tax that you have to pay . When you buy a TV the store has to inform the TV licensing authority who then checks on a database to see if you have a licence to watch it . If not , they send a guy to your house to talk to you ( various footage of such an attempt available here : URL_0 ) The TV licence is technically only needed for BBC broadcasts , ( as other channels are commercially funded ) . You also need one if you listen to the radio . However you will be liable for a penalty if you watch a non BBC station without a licence , as they assume you de - tuned your BBC stations ( essentially you 're guilty until proven innocent ) . Some European countries are trying to change the legislation so you need a TV licence for digital broadcasts , which includes YouTube tv shows , Netflix / HBO go and purchase for iTunes . IIRC only Sweden has actually implemented this though . The TV detector vans are utter BS and were just a scare tactic .
Giraffes are * * big * * animals . It 's true that we do n't usually think of giraffes as hurting people ( they do n't eat people ) , but if a giraffe got out of the zoo , it would probably be very scared . Imagine how scary cars and trucks would be if you had never seen them before ! When animals are scared , there are two big ways they try to deal with it . Some animals like to run away from whatever scares them , and some like to fight it , and maybe scare * it * away , or even kill it . Some animals run away sometimes , and fight sometimes . If a giraffe got out of the zoo and got scared ( maybe even by the people who are trying to bring him back home to the zoo ) , he might try to fight them , and such a big animal could hurt people very easily . So the people who deal with runaway animals have to be very careful with giraffes , or any other big animal .
People often confuse " dirty " and " unsanitary . " You can have sanitary dirt , and clean things can be unsanitary , if they 're not also sterilized . They do not help with sanitary at all . The paper is sitting there right next to the toilet , toilet germs are going to spray into the bathroom every time someone plops , sprays , or flushes , and this includes onto the paper . They do , however , help with dirty . A bit of dried pee , a tiny smear of poo , or even just someone 's ass - dirt , those are all blocked by the paper .
I encourage you to think of this home purchase decision as a chance to buy into a community that you want your children to grow up in. Try to find a place where you will be happy for the next 20 years, not just the next 2 or 7 years. In your situation, option 1 seems like a bad idea. It will create an obstacle to having children, instead of establishing a place for them to grow up in. Option 2 is close to "buying a house on a layaway plan". It offers the most financial flexibility. It also could result in the best long-term outcome, because you will buy in an established area, and you will know exactly what quality house you will have. But you and your fiancé need to ask yourselves some hard questions: Are you willing to put up with the mess and hassles of remodelling? Are you good at designing such projects? Can you afford to pay for the projects as they occur? Or if you need to finance them, can you get a HELOC to cover them? Especially if you and your fiancé do much of the work yourselves, break down the projects into small enough pieces that you can quickly finish off whatever you are working on at the time, and be happy living in the resulting space. You do not want to be nagging your husband about an unfinished project "forever" -- or silently resenting that a project never got wrapped up.
It depends whether you hear an actual high - pitched noise , which would be tinnitus , or if you hear the faint buzzing that all people hear . This is because your brain always tries to find something to register . In the dark , your eyes will always be looking for something to see . The ringing in your ears is your brain trying to register what 's in the room , and if there 's no real impulse to deal with it will register this " ringing " . I found this quote on a site about tinnitus : " Nearly everyone experiences ear noise ; in total silence , most people will report hearing faint buzzing , pulsing , or whirring sounds , the normal compensatory activity of the nerves in the hearing pathway . It 's when these sounds are intrusive that it becomes tinnitus . "
A lot of the excitement and cool noises of racing comes from switching gears(rev matching , turbos respooling up ) . So rather than staying in one gear from a ridiculous amount of time it 's more exciting to change gears to keep from it getting monotonous . What I never understood is why a quarter mile race which in the cars they drive should take about 10sec always lasts 10min . But I guess the movies just would n't work otherwise .
Legalization means it is perfectly legal to , say , possess and smoke it . Decriminalization means it 's still not quite legal , but possessing it and/or smoking it does n't rise to the level of a " crime . " Like a speeding ticket . It 's not legal to drive 75 on the highway , but you do n't get arrested for it . It 's a violation , not a misdemeanor . In US criminal law there are three levels of breaking the law : * Violation - 75 on the highway * Misdemeanor - 155 on a local road * Felony - 155 on a local road while drunk and you kill someone while doing it The exact points where violations upgrade to misdemeanors upgrade to felonies vary from state to state .
By launching a rocket from Mars . That rocket might be part of the lander , like Apollo was , or a separately delivered vehicle . Most Mars missions envision multiple craft having to go to Mars to make the mission successful to a separately delivered craft is likely . The rocket will have to be landed on Mars but the fuel it uses to take off might be generated on Mars not brought from Earth . Most likely it will only go into Martian orbit , then dock with an orbiting craft and that craft return to Earth . A good place to start is the [ NASA Design Reference Mission ] ( URL_0 ) the Return Vehicle is on p 30 . This document has been superseded but its only about 7 years old .
Hello.Thank you for asking at HCM.I went through your history and would like to make suggestions for you as follows:1. I would suggest you to take an antihistamine like hydroxyzine for 2-3 days. It will help.2. I would also suggest you to avoid hot/spicy foods for a week if it is possible.Hope above suggestions will be helpful to you.Should you have any further query, please feel free to ask at HCM.Wish you the best of the health.Thank you & Regards.
If your computer were an apartment building , with programs living in the apartments , the address of the building would be your computer 's IP address , and the apartment numbers would be the ports . So if you want to talk to a specific program , you need to know which computer , as well as which * port * on that computer the program is listening on . A socket is the entire communication link between two computers , and is defined as the combination of the local address and port , the remote address and port , and the protocol being used . It would be like one of those tin - can - and - string telephones that your little brother has set up with his friend in the apartment across the alley behind the building .
* It gives the US influence over the recipient country 's government . It will encourage them to adopt a more pro - US foreign policy . * Aid donations can be conditional on recipients addressing issue that affect the US , like money laundering , drug smuggling , people trafficking etc . * It makes it easier for American companies to do business in recipient countries - for instance , being granted the contracts for an American - funded infrastructure project - which will boost American jobs and manufacturing .
Simple explanation : You know how Psychologists study one person , Sociologists study groups of people ( this is a very loose one - liner I tell everyone ) . A better explanation : Sociologist do not care about one person 's issues , they look for issues that are common among a groups of people . For instance , Sociologist will find out that younger adults are more depressed than middle - aged adults and , try to explain this phenomenon . They also study simple statistics like the rapid increase in dual - earner households since the 1970s . Sociologists collect these kind of information from the census and/or from their own data collection , such as random phone interviews or face - to - face interviews . I could keep going , but I hope I answered your questions .
On the airlines I 've been bumped on , the use of compensation tickets are also controlled . There are restrictions which force you to use them on non - peak travel , which would normally be flights with empty seats . So bumping you to a later flight and giving you a voucher costs less than 2 full flights .
Good SCM is why Wal - Mart flourished as quickly as it did . They knew what they had in their stores and they knew what needed to be in their stores and when . They were absolutely great at it . Inventory is a huge cost . Handle your supply chain inefficiently and you wind up with stagnent inventory taking up space that could otherwise be used for goods with a high throughput .
Our rate of respiration has more to do with our need to blow off CO2 . CO2 in our system makes our blood serum acidic , and it needs to stay with in a strict pH range . That 's why in extreme diabetic episodes people tend to hyperventilate . The body is burning fat which makes the blood more acidic than it would be burning glucose ( ketoacidosis ) , and hyperventaaltion is necessary to compensate . Homeostasis is fascinating .
> if plants draw nutrients and feed from the soil , how are the nutrients in the soil replenished ? Keep in mind that the vast majority of plant nutrients and structure do not come from the soil , they come from the air , water , and sunlight . What plants actually pull out of the soil would generally be replaced by the erosion and deposition of trace minerals , or the decomposition of previously living things . Fertilizers include things plants need such as nitrogen , potassium , and phosphorus . Nitrogen for example is another thing that comes straight from the air through the action of bacteria . But the salient point here is that all those trace minerals dissolve in water and would gradually be replenished through erosion . Only with humans growing large amounts of plant material and carting it away does replacing those things through fertilization become critical .
The issue was n't JUST that it was bundled with the OS . There are are a couple other factors : When this ruling was made , Microsoft was far more dominant in the PC market than it is now and was effectively a monopoly . Through that monopoly , Microsoft began to push out its competitors in other markets ( Internet browsers , word processing software , etc ) by forcing OEMs to bundle microsoft products with their computers rather than one of their competitors . Although the case centered around Internet Explorer , it was more about that monopoly in general . The final settlement involved forcing Microsoft to play fair with other software developers by letting others have access to their API information . Anywho , back to the original question : The reason the Safari / iTunes + IOS and MSE + Win8 are n't similarly restricted has to do with that ruling . The final settlement did NOT restrict Microsoft ( or anyone else ) from bundling software with their OS . What it prevented was having OS companies from making their OS incompatible ( or less compatible ) with their competitors non - OS products .
Most modern languages stem from older languages , many of which are no longer used ( the best example of this is Latin ) . Mind you , this mostly refers to the structure , not as much the words and stems . Using your specific example : German , along with languages like Dutch and Swedish , are Germanic languages . One of the first was Old High German , and the Old High German word for Germany was " diutisc . " From that came the German " deutschland . " English is n't a great example , because it borrows from a lot of languages . Although it 's technically a late Germanic language , because of the way its sentences are structured , * a lot * of its words are rooted in Latin , which created the " Romance languages " like French , Italian , and Spanish . The Latin name " Germania " is the root of the English " Germany . " * * TL;DR They have different root languages * * ( This is my first detailed ELI5 response ... how 'd I do ? )
They are n't ? Gates ( 1st ) , Zuckerberg ( 6th ) , Ellison ( 7th ) and Bloomberg ( 8th ) all created either hardware or software that revolutionized their field . They then built companies around that idea but they were n't originally businessmen . I 'd also argue Bezos ( 5th ) should be seen as a technologist but he was more business like than the other 4 at first .
I 'll start with the how . China chooses to print more of its currency than it needs to run its economy well . Then , China uses most of that currency to buy American dollar in the form of Treasury bonds . This causes the value of the Chinese Yuan to go down due to an additional supply and the value of the American dollar to go up due to the deceased supply . Why does China do it ? Well , by having a " weak " currency , China encourages economic growth by making items within its economy cheaper compared to the world . All of that labor is made cheaper because China chooses to make it cheaper . The US gets mad about it because the Chinese goods are cheaper than American goods , hurting American manufacturers .
Before the Berlin Wall was built , it functioned as simply another part of East Germany , albeit one where the East German government had no authority . In other words people were free to cross from east to west Berlin to meet friends , buy goods and services , and so on . Once the Berlin Wall was built everything changed . In fact one of the main purposes of the Berlin Wall 's creation was to basically besiege west Berlin by preventing supplies getting in . That problem was overcome by the western powers launching a non - stop 24 - hour - a - day airdrop of supplies to west Berliners , continuing for weeks . Once the East German government relented a little and allowed supplies into west Berlin , it then functioned just as any other small and relatively isolated city did .
The Wikipedia article on [ Metric Time ] ( URL_0 ) gives a few good reasons . I 'd say top two would be : 1 . Our current definition of time has been around since the times of the Babylonian and Sumerian empires . That 's a * long * period of time for humanity to have gotten used to the way things are now . 2 . Converting to metric time would be downright * weird * because it would be nearly impossible to fit it to the actual time it takes the Earth the rotate , or to complete an orbit around the sun . There 's no getting around the fact that there are 365 days in a year , and that days were originally roughly defined by sunrise and sunset . These time periods do n't cleanly divide into base 10 units .
Well it took over a billion years or so for life to happen . So maybe it happens once every billion years on average . We 've had the technology to notice it for , what , 100 years ? Then there 's the fact that if it did emerge it would now have to compete with existing life , so it probably would n't last long . Finally , it could have emerged and survived and how would we know ? We would have to physically find and notice it . How much of the entire earth do we regularly examine for something like that ? An incredibly tiny amount .
Their blog post on the Obama AMA has some explanation of what they did for him : URL_1 And this blog post is probably what you want : URL_0 > myth : reddit pays for celebrities to do AMA interviews and writes all the answers for them . > reality : reddit does not get paid nor does it pay for celebrity AMAs . We also do n’t write any answers for them . To be absolutely transparent , some or all of the following things do happen : > people contact us asking us to “ allow them ” to do an AMA > people contact us asking to pay for an AMA > reddit contacts people inviting them to do an AMA > In all of the above cases , we explain that an AMA is something that anyone with a notable life experience can do , and we may offer them help for free , in which “ help ” consists of helping schedule AMAs or explaining what an AMA really is and how to execute an AMA well - from signing up for a reddit account to what to expect from the audience to how much time they should try to set aside . We do n’t accept payment for any of this - AMAs are by and for the community . > Sometimes people ( e.g. studios , filmmakers ) will buy ads on reddit to support an upcoming film or television show . While
3D Printing is a method of creating objects from nothing more than raw material , a computer file to guide the printing , and a special printer . Here 's how it works : The printer lays down a layer of raw material ( usually some sort of plastic or resin ) in the shape of the bottom of the object . Then it lays down another tiny layer almost identical to the one below . It adds layer after layer , changing slightly where it puts the material according to the computer file 's plan . Gradually , layer by layer , it builds a 3D - object . The cool thing is that 3D printing technology is getting to the point where affordable , inkjet - like printers are commonly available .
A lot of them are used by various world governments to do the things you said . A lot of them are also used in academia to solve problems . Weather patterns for example , is one of these problems that are based in Newtonian physics ( that is , “ normal ” physics like what goes up must come down ) , and among the equations to be solved are the Navier Stokes equations . These NS equations are so important that in fact they can , and are , applied to basically every single problem you can think of that involves a fluid ( gas , water , air , liquids , oil , etc ) moving from A to B. So , that means it can be used to model jet propulsion ( gas is moving out the exhaust ) , rocket engines ( gas / mass is moving out the exhaust ) , new airplane designs ( air is moving over the wings ) , etc . The other thing about these NS equations is that * they currently can not be solved * . There ’s actually like a million dollar prize for anyone who can prove whether or not they can or ca n’t be solved . Anyway , despite not being able to be solved , we can use supercomputers to approximate a solution to them . How do we know the solutions are right then if they ca n’t be solved ?
even though they're only asking for 1/2 the money and have excellent credit that the mortgage company may not lend it to them if I'm over priced Yes. If the house's value, as determined by the appraisal, is less than the sale price, the bank will not finance the loan. Appraisals and the appraisal process have become much tighter since the Frannie and Freddie debacle. This fact is true regardless of amounts or credit history. Though this is happens somewhat rarely; typically if a seller and buyer agree to a price, this price is a reasonable value -- after all, that is nearly the definition of "market value". So, yes, it is true (and always true, for any financed purchase), but that shouldn't really affect your decision. If you try to sell for more than the appraisal, you will just lower the price to the appraised amount.
Because 33 % is not one third . Neither is 33.333333333 % . It is close , but not quite there . The correct way to write one third would be 0.3333333 +1/3 No mater how many decimal places you take it , there will still be ' And One Third ' at the end . So .33 and one third plus .33 and one third plus .33 and one third is 0.99 and one - hundredth , or 1.00
No . If you ever want to return values other than red green or blue ( like 123,50,23 ) , you have to allocate 24 bits of memory for every pixel every time . Once you 've allocated the memory , it does n't matter what you put it in it . You could create a program which saved memory by restricting the rendering pipeline to only pure color channels , but that would be a very ugly , 8 - bit looking rendering pipeline that would have to rely on heavy pixel dithering to create the illusion of a color gamut .
They 're required to put the nutrition on their labels , but after that it 's fair game . They typically want to put a nice number on there for calories but will disguise by dividing it and calling it a " serving size " . People will see " 100 calories " and like that part , even if there are 10 servings and the whole thing is about 1,000 calories .
Think about it this way. If the strike price is $200, and cost of the option is $0.05. $200 + $0.05 is $200.05. That does not mean that the price of buying the option is more. Neither is the option writer going to pay you $70 to buy the contract. When you are buying options, you can only have a limited downside and that is the premium that you pay for it. In case of the $115 contract, your total loss could be a maximum of $19.3. In case of the $130 contract, your total loss could be a maximum of $9.3. This is due to the fact that the chances of AAPL going to hit $130 is less than the chance of AAPL hitting $115. Therefore, option writers offer the lower probability contracts at a lower price. Long story short, you do not pay for the Strike price. You only pay the premium and that premium keeps getting lower with and increase in Strike price(Or decrease if it is a put option). Strike price is just a number that you expect the stock or index to break. I would suggest you to read up a little more on pricing from here
Before anything else, read up on the basics of economics. After that, there a few things you need to ask yourself before you even think about investing in anything: If you have an answer to those questions: Once you answered those questions I could make a simple first suggestion: Confident in handling it yourself and low maintenance with uncertain horizon: look up an online bank that offers ETFs such as IWDA (accumulation (dividend is not payed but reinvested) or income(dividend is payed out)) and maybe a few more specific ones then buy and hold for at least 5 years. Confident and high maintenance with long horizon: maybe stock picking but you'll probably never be able to beat the market unless you invest 10's of hours in research per week. However this will also cost a bit and given your initial amount not advisable to do. Be sure that you also have a VERY close look at the prospectus of an investment (especially if you go with a (retail) bank and they "recommend" you certain actively traded funds). They tend to charge you quite a bit (yearly management fees of 2-3% (which is A LOT if you are eying maybe 7%-8% yearly) aren't unheard of). ETF's such IWDA only have for example a yearly cost of 0.20%. Personally I have one portfolio (of many) only consisting of that ETF (so IWDA) and one global small cap. It's one of the best and most consistant ones to date. In the end, the
The wiki on [ Brackets ] ( URL_0 ) explains this fairly well . Parentheses ( ) contain material that could be omitted without destroying or altering the meaning of a sentence . Square brackets [ ] are mainly used to insert explanatory material or to mark where a passage was omitted from an original material by someone other than the original author , or to mark modifications in quotations . Curly brackets are used immediately before or after , and span , a list of items where there precedes , or follows , respectively , one or more other items that are common to that list .
After WWII the U.N was designed to keep the world peace , invasions use to be profitable and could aid a nation , but with the UN and especially the U.S enforcing Trade sanctions and possibly blockades it would do nothing but hurt your nation . So Invasions result in 3 things 1 . Being kicked out of the U.N and losing support of many nations in the UN 2 . Having trade sanctions and blockades enforced , effectively destroying your economy 3 . Possible attack of taken over land and it being returned to its original nation by the UN and in Particular the U.S and it 's allies ( Ex . Iraqi invasion of Kuwait )
They stick a small pick up your eye socket , as your skull is thinnest there , the pick enters the prefrontal cortex of your your brain ( it 's that part of your brain responsible for memory , decision - making and logical thought ) from the bottom , the surgeon swishes the pick around and destroys a bit of the brain lobe . Generally , the patient is made to count from ten backwards repeatedly , when the patient can no longer count coherently , the surgeon deems that enough damage has been done and withdraws the pick . This is generally done to make " uncontrollable " mental patients more docile . The end result was a patient with severely retarded mental capacities and almost completely no sense of initiative . The above method ( Transorbital Lobotomy ) was popularized by the American doctor Walter Freeman ( who learned it from the Portuguese neurologist António Egas Moniz , who would go on to win a Nobel for this " invention " ) . Freeman drove around America in a mobile lab he called the " lobotomobile " shilling his " technique " like some demented Kirby salesman . He preformed 3500 operations in the late 40s and boasted that the lobotomy would be as common as pulling teeth by the time he 's done with it ( the US would eventually lobotomize about 50 000 people , including children as young as 4 ) . The procedure
To add , ESPN pays football conferences and other leagues literally BILLIONS to air their stuff ( their contract with the NBA is something on the order of 2 billion a year ) . Many argue they 've spent way too much to get these games on their channel ( especially college football , whose ratings plummeted due to the big games being on New Years Eve when no one is watching ) , They 've overextended themselves just at the time they needed to not commit to paying leagues billions upon billions of dollars . And with the subscriber base shrinking and cable companies ready to jump ship , ESPN is trying to cut costs wherever else it can - letting go of longtime employees and journalists , shuttering successful and respected departments ( like Grantland ) , and so on . Even if ESPN charged 20 / month for a standalone " WatchESPN " experience , they would still have to pay tons of money to the leagues and conferences to get the content on that service , and they 'd possibly have to pay even more , as the leagues would see ESPN rolling in money and demand more for their content .
Depression is n't fully understood , but we think it has to do with altered brain chemistry -- namely , various neuroreceptors not being able to do their job properly . If the drug can alter the brain chemistry in a similar way , then it 's possible that the drug can cause depression , and one of it 's side effects , suicide .
Linguist here , and all these anecdotal answers are frustrating me because none of them are giving you an accurate or complete answer . The best examples we have of this situation come from [ feral children ] ( URL_1 ) who have grown up deprived of language contact . Do n't listen to anyone who says that pathological cases make bad examples , because they are our only non - anecdotal examples . Let me make a crucial distinction early on here that this is different from language deprived children who still grew up in a linguistically rich environment , such as deaf children growing up with speaking parents who do not know a sign language . We 'll look at those examples in a moment . Feral children show us that thought does exist without language , however complex thought becomes difficult without a linguistic framework to reference . This has a lot to do with the plasticity of the brain . What that means is that the brain is very flexible and able to restructure itself , however the feral children provide evidence that there is a critical period in this plasticity , a period in which the brain is especially flexible , that turns off once they get older and is lost forever . What we find with these children is that they sound and act developmentally disabled , even though there may not be anything wrong with their brain . Concepts beyond their basic needs
You need to run a virus scan on your computers to make sure you do not have a key-logger program running on either. I would also think about designating one old computer to only access your bank accounts and not do anything but that. If your computer is infected then every time you login your credit cards can be compromised.
REIT's are a different beast than your normal corporate stock (such as $AAPL). Here is a good article to get you started. From there you can do some more research into what you think you will need to truly evaluate an REIT. How To Assess A Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) Excerpt: When evaluating REITs, you will get a clearer picture by looking at funds from operations (FFO) rather than looking at net income. If you are seriously considering the investment, try to calculate adjusted funds from operations (AFFO), which deducts the likely expenditures necessary to maintain the real estate portfolio. AFFO is also a good measure of the REIT's dividend-paying capacity. Finally, the ratio price-to-AFFO and the AFFO yield (AFFO/price) are tools for analyzing an REIT: look for a reasonable multiple combined with good prospects for growth in the underlying AFFO. Good luck!
There 's these things called quantum particles , which are really really small and are very difficult to see . If you try and look at these quantum particles , then you disrupt whatever they 're doing . Observing them causes them to change their behavior and their state , because they act differently when they interact with the outside world ( us ) . In other words , we thought it was impossible to observe these tiny particles without affecting them . These researchers have come up with methods to observe and measure these particles . This was previously thought to be impossible . They figured out how to observe the particles without disrupting the state they 're in and affecting their behavior . edit - IGNORE THIS . The Nobel prize was given for work on manipulating quantum states in ion traps and with photons in cavity . This showed a lot of people that quantum computers are possible . ( Thank you The_Serious_Account )
Hi . I wrote RES . It could use more documentation , to be sure -- but really you can figure everything out if you look in the settings console . Have you looked in the settings console ? RES has a bunch of " modules " -- basically chunks of code grouped by function / features ... [ here is a list of them ] ( URL_0 ) You can turn them on and off , as well as configure individual settings , using the settings console . Roll over the gear icon and click " settings console " and explore ! Some tips on things you wo n't find in there : - View " my dashboard " and create widgets with subreddits that have low traffic ( and thus rarely show on your homepage ) but you want to follow them ... - Add multi - reddits to your top bar by separating them with a + -- like explainlikeimfive+askscience+askreddit ... it 'll make a dropdown menu for you . Super handy . - To edit the stuff in your top bar , double click it ... an edit box will pop up ... you can give things a " display name " to have them take up less space , etc ... ( e.g. changing explainlikeimfive to eli5 ) - Try out keyboard navigation sometime ... hit ? to pop up a list of all the keyboard commands ... there 's a TON you can do
One of the biggest things i ve noticed that can cause nightmares is bad sleep habits / digestion , heavy meal before sleep is a no no , any digestive issues / pain during sleep can quickly become nightmares . No idea why exactly , if i were to make a wild guess i d imagine the brain trying to wake up to fix w / e is wrong . Dreaming is not that well understood in general , nightmares much less , and night terrors ? who knows , demons probably ! wait , no , nowadays its aliens ?
Adsense don't pay you daily. They pay you every month (as they have to calculate the final value). I'd say you only have to declare it when it hits your bank account. £60 actually isn't that much. It only took me a couple of months of just making a few quid, to making enough to get a monthly payment, and I only tot up what goes into my bank account. I've opened up a second account with my bank to send and receive payments relating to my online adventures. Then any in/out goes into a spreadsheet that I do at the end of the month keeping track of everything. If Mr. Taxman want to investigate at the end of the tax year, it's all logged in that account. It gets a bit murkier if you start doing US Amazon affiliates. The simplest method is to get the cheque delivered, and then log the amount that goes into your bank (after $->£ conversion). I have a Payoneer account, and transfer most of the money into my account (after it hits $500), and keep a little bit in for things I buy that are in USD. Hope that helps.
Because those fast moving molecules bump into your slow moving molecules , causing chaos at the molecular level , which is interpreted by your nerves as pain . If the skin is allowed to heat up enough , the molecules might get moving so fast that cells shake themselves apart , and your body has to send the immune system to clean up the mess ( a blister )
I have responded to a similar question prior , but I 'll just give my two cents here too . Okay , so I do have some experience working in product placement ( TV series though , not movies ) but I 'm sure it varies ( depending on the production and local legislations ) . Firstly , you need to differentiate between a placement that is paid for and a generic placement . All productions have a budget and buying / renting stuff like furniture , electronic devices , clothing etc . is expensive and all departments have to figure out how to make everything look as perfect as desired yet stick to budget . That 's when I 'd come into play . I get in touch with companies who produce a certain product and convince them to give us their product for free and to sign an agreement to be included / shown in the series / film . Mostly , companies loan products to film productions . This has two great advantages to paid placements : 1 . the company has zero claims / expectations in regards to if and how their product is shown and 2 . it saves the production a ton of money . If , however , a production agrees to a paid placement there is no " rule " dictating how much money buys how much on - screen presence . It all depends on the negotiation skills of both parties
That 's the whole point of using rar files ! It 's called " compression " . Basically , the real file is like a long letter : > Dear Charles , I am writing to you to discuss the alarming increase in recent muggings in our quaint village ... The rar file uses a bunch of shorthand : > Yo C , ppl gettin mugged So the rar file is much shorter , but it takes a little work to decode it .
The tesseract is a shadow of a higher dimentional object . Think of a two dimensional being . It would be unable to actually see a cube within it 's plane , but it would be able to see a square , which to it would be a complex geometric shape , and the ' shadow of a cube . ' The tesseract ( hypercube ) is the same representation within our plane . We can not ' see ' the actual shape of a higher dimensional object , our eyes did not evolve to see anything more than 3 physical dimensions ; nor can our minds grasp the complexity , but we can see the shadow of a hypercube ( the 3d representation of the 4th physical dimension ) . They are special for several reasons , one being that the tesseract is the culmination of a mans life work ( ca n't remember his name ) , another is that it gives us mere earthlings a realistic way of interpreting how complicated higher dimensional space is , a model to help us visualize it 's properties . P.S. - although we can not see the object , we would still be able to observe some of its interaction / effects on our dimension plain . This would happen in the same way that a cube 's properties would still influence a 2 dimensional plane , even though a being inhabiting that plane could n't see it .
There 's certain words that have different meanings to chemists than they do in common usage . In normal usage " sugar " refers to table sugar but to a chemist it can refer to a family of chemicals - sucrose , fructose , lactose , and a few others . " Salt " is the same - table salt is sodium chloride but the generic term can refer to any chemical with a similar structure . " Alcohol " is used the same way . The stuff that people drink is called " ethyl alcohol " . Rubbing alcohol is made of of similar chemicals like methyl or isopropyl alcohol - they act like drinking alcohol for things like cleaning cuts but if you drink them they 'll make you really sick .
I 'll assume US or at least Western : The arms industry is big , and makes lots of money making bombs and equipment to use in War , and war like operations . Lots of money . They make so much money they are able to make political donations to politicians who may be more ' Hawkish ' - willing to use military force - ensuring at the least , a group of like minded individuals in power that will be more willing to use military force when possible . There is also the ' Private Security ' and Military Service industry that are very dependent on Military operations and bases . Many of the guards on many bases overseas are private contractors . Instead of committing forces to security , the US Military out sources base security to private firms . There are also private security companies that provide VIP protection services , an important necessity in the turmoil during and after a war , but not necessarily a job that is best suited to the military itself . There is also the logistics portion of war , bringing in food , water , and supplies , all of that costs money , and provides work , but is not something the military wants to do directly - these are going to be private companies as well with large contracts ( because it 's dangerous work ) Additionally , there is a lot of money to be made
First , I 'd say do n't think about practical applications now , think about what the world might be like in 20 or 50 years , and what the practical applications will be like * then * . With the [ inevitable march of technological progress ] ( URL_1 ) eventually almost everything a human can do that 's ' productive ' is going to be automated . Our machines will do these jobs faster and better than we can , and for a lot of people who have spent their entire lives thinking of their job as a key part of their identity , that can be very scary . So , there 's two ways we can approach this : * The " jobs are important " way - Humans interacting with technology through things like typing or talking is incredibly slow , if we want to be able to " compete " with AI we 're going to have to be able to interact a lot faster than that . If we can there 's even a chance that human intelligence and machine intelligence will compliment each other and we can work together . * The " jobs are n't important " way - Think of yourself not as your body , and not even as your brain ( which uses a lot of capacity just to move your body around and keep it alive ) , [ but as your conscious mind ] ( URL_0
As some others have said , That crackling sound is indeed the hard drive , which has some moving parts inside it . You might notice the sound becomes louder if you try to open a large file , or when starting your computer . Aside from the fans , and the hard drive , A computer actually makes some sound by " thinking " . A computer that is " thinking " requires slightly more power than a computer that is not doing anything . Causing the power supply ( The box you plug the power cable into ) to make more noise .
Because they 're essentially sugars . They 're very caloric ally dense , and they make your blood sugar spike instead of maintaining your blood sugar content ( like whole grains ) . This is because they take the key parts out or a grain that provides nutrition when making white products . Wholegrain just means they keep the good stuff in
Oh boy an ELI5 i can actually answer ! An assault rifle , like an M16 or AK-47 is a select fire(meaning it is capable of both semi automatic and fully automatic fire ) rifled weapon that is designed to be wielded by one person and is chambered in what is known as an intermediate cartridge(5.56x45 , 7.62x39 etc ) which is in terms of power and range in between a pistol round and a full size rifle round . A machine gun is typically a heavier select fire weapon that is usually designed to be used by more than one person and is typically chambered in a full sized rifle round(7.62x51,7.62x54r,.303 british , 30 - 06 etc)although this is not always the case . A submachine gun can be thought of as a more compact assault rifle as it is a select fire , compact weapon designed to be used by one person and is chambered in a pistol cartridge(9x19mm,9x18 mm makarov,.45acp,7.62x25,5.7x28etc . ) I hope that helped
I am a lawyer and practice bankruptcy law and debtor / creditor law . The basis for credit card debt is a person 's promise to repay the money . If they do not repay the money then the credit card company can sue them to get a judgment and then with that judgment try to collect the money that is owed . When someone dies , a probate estate is created that contains all of their assets . When someone dies , the credit card companies no longer have a claim against the person , but now has a claim against their estate . Someone ( usually a family member ) is appointed as the administrator ( also called executor / executrix ) of their estate . This person is required to liquidate the assets of the probate estate , pay the creditors of the dead person , and then if there is any money left over , they are to distribute it to the people who will inherit money per the dead person 's will . ( Or if no will , according to the laws of the state they are in ) . So why ca n't you just give all of your stuff away before you die to avoid paying your creditors ? Two reasons : 1 . ) Many creditors have collateral ( such as a mortgage on a house or a lien on a car ) . The creditor 's lien follows the collateral
I have looked at the conditions of a car rental company, and I believe it provides the answers: Upon pick up of your vehicle, you must present a valid credit card (*) used to make the booking and which must be in the driver´s name. If you do not have a valid credit card we will accept your debit card when you pick up your vehicle. However, as we cannot reserve credit to cover the potential damage or refueling costs, you will need to take SuperCover and a fuel tank of fuel at the start of the rental. We will refund the value of the unused fuel at the end of the rental unless otherwise agreed with you. (*) VISA, MasterCard and American Express are accepted. Credit card or Third Party Insurance IMPORTANT: In case of damage, we will charge you the incurred amount up to the excess. You will then need to reclaim this amount from the provider of the credit card or third party insurer. We strongly recommend that you fully read and understand the terms and conditions of any cover provided by your chosen provider before you decline any of our optional services. Without our SuperCover, should you damage the vehicle during your rental period, we will charge you the corresponding amount up to the excess, regardless of whether you can subsequently reclaim this amount from the provider of the credit card or the third party insurer. In the event you would like to dispute any of
Those things are n't much more complicated than staying inside the lane by not drifting over the white / yellow lines . When the camera detects a stop sign it should also identify the start of the intersection and hold the car stationary there for a second or so before decided to advance or wait on another vehicle . Car on the road to the right ? Wait until it has passed . When a street light is seen hanging over an intersection advance through only if the green light is active . If it 's not pull to halt before the start of the intersection and wait until it is . These are fairly simple ideas to program , the real difficulty is writing the software that lets you identify stop signs , traffic lights and the like from your camera feeds .
Why would you consider it null and void? It might be that something went wrong and the business "lost" the transaction one way or another. It might be something else. It might never appear. It might appear. In one of the questions a while ago someone posted a link of a story where an account was overdrawn because of a forgotten debit card charge that resurfaced months later. Can't find the link right now, but it can definitely happen.
There are two aspects to this . One , as others have said , is concentration of the acid in a solution - the higher the concentration , the lower the pH - for the same acid ! But 10 % solution of HCl and HBr wo nt have the same pH , that is where the strength of the acid comes in . Different acids have different " dissociation constant " - willingness to let the H+ go . Generally that is determinated by the stability of the resulting anion , in this case Cl- and Br- . The more stable the anion the stronger the acid - the less of it you need to achieve a solution with the same pH. My point is that pH does n't necessarily correlate with acid strength , which is something your question implied . While they are closely related , they are two very different things . If you specify which exactly you are interested in - pH or acid strength - i could provide more detailed information :-)
> Black - body radiation becomes a visible glow of light if the temperature of the object is high enough . The Draper point is the temperature at which all solids glow a dim red , about 798 K. At 1000 K , a small opening in the wall of a large uniformly heated opaque - walled cavity ( let us call it an oven ) , viewed from outside , looks red ; at 6000 K , it looks white . No matter how the oven is constructed , or of what material , as long as it is built so that almost all light entering is absorbed by its walls , it will contain a good approximation to black - body radiation . The spectrum , and therefore color , of the light that comes out will be a function of the cavity temperature alone . A graph of the amount of energy inside the oven per unit volume and per unit frequency interval plotted versus frequency , is called the black - body curve . Different curves are obtained by varying the temperature . [ Link ] ( URL_0 )
Partly because water is better at carrying away sweat than air . And partly because when we 're in hot weather , we usually experience radiation from the sun , which heats us up more than the heat from the air . Also , just because the forecast say its 95 degrees , it 's probably hotter than that in enclosed spaces , thanks to the greenhouse effect .
I 'll let a coder come in and explain how the multiplayer systems manage to sync all this , but the gist is this : When you click your mouse , the game executes the code for firing your weapon . At this point , it takes the information about where your weapon 's barrel is and where you 're pointing it , and generates a vector ( sort of like a one - way 3d line ) . Sometimes it comes up with more than one , like for a shotgun , and some games will randomly vary the direction by some amount to simulate the effective range of the weapon . Once the vector has been generated , the game simply checks whether or not it intersects with something . Your enemies all have a simple , invisible 3d shape around their bodies called a ' hitbox ' . If the vector intersects with the hitbox before reaching the weapon 's maximum range , it does damage . In some games , if it hits something else ( like a wall or something ) , it 'll have other effects . Also , depending on the game , there may be some kind of aim assistance , which basically means you score a hit even if the vector does n't intersect with the hitbox , as long as it 's within a certain distance .
You have to think about what " observe " means in this context . On a large scale we assume that the miniscule energy in light is n't sufficient to actually alter the behavior of an object . The position of the sun wo n't have much impact on a baseball 's trajectory . At an atomic scale you ca n't make that assumption . Even a single photon will alter the state of a molecule . So when you 're " observing " anything at such a microscopic scale you 're by necessity " interacting " with it . Every photon it interacts with , every magnetic field it drifts through , every molecule it passes by , they 're all going to alter whatever you 're trying to observe . At the quantum scale observation and interaction are inseparable .
Your confusion , I think , comes from the fact that money and value are not the same thing . Money , in an economic sense , is just a medium of exchange for goods and services ( either printed , coins or in the form of deposits in bank accounts ) . Value is what an asset , good or firm is worth in the market , usually expressed in a dollar amount ( or whatever currency is used in a particular country ) . When the sub - prime mortgage crisis hit , what was lost was value . The mortgages , when it became clear that the borrowers could not repay them , lost massive amounts of value . The derivatives which packaged these mortgages lost value because of the high rates of default . As a result of the near - collapse of the housing market and financial sector , companies which rely on the proper functioning of the financial markets lost value . Essentially , the economic crises caused a devaluation of all of these assets because their market value ( for example the stock price ) fell as a result of the financial crisis which made it harder to do business . This value was lost , and not exchanged for other assets or goods .
Instead of having all sorts of insurance companies , like Cigna , BlueCross / Blue Shield , Aetna , Humana , etc . that we ( or our employers ) buy insurance from and who get billed from our doctors and hospitals , there would just be a government agency that would pay all health insurance claims . Pretty much like how Medicare works for seniors now , but for everybody .
Reddit is a discussion forum and a link - sharing website . A person can submit links to other webpages or submit their own topic for discussion ( a " self - post " ) . Others can comment on the link or the self - post , and decide its popularity by " up"voting or " down"voting these links ( similar to Facebook 's " Like " and the non - existent " Dislike " ) . The upvoting and downvoting is also available for comments . When reddit started , there were several other " social bookmarking " websites . Apart from the concept of " self - posts " and a simple interface , what made reddit unique was the concept of " subreddits " ( or simply " reddits " ) . Essentially , each subreddit is a section dedicated to a particular area of interest . Reddit users can create their own own subreddits , and create rules for it . For example , the " Ask Science " subreddit is dedicated to answering science - related questions . As a rule , it does n't allow jokes or witty one - liners in comments . If you disagree with these rules , you can create another subreddit which serves the same purpose , but allows the users to post funny comments . A subreddit appealing to a specific niche tends to attract people with similar interests , allowing creation of online " communities "
It 's exploiting some kind of weakness in the rock that 's there because of some planar fabric . It 's pretty hard to tell what the rock is from photos alone but it looks like a fairly standard fine sedimentary rock to me , perhaps a fine sandstone or siltstone . Looks a bit too coarse to be a shale from the photos but again , it 's hard to say without having the actual rock sample . I do n't think it 's slate . When sediment is deposited , it generally forms layers ( planar surfaces ) . Differences in properties between layers ( either stemming from the original sediment itself , or the way the sediment has been cemented together due to burial ) or the alignment of sediment grains ( particularly things like clays if this were indeed a shale ) can cause planes of weakness within the rock parallel to bedding planes , which can allow it to split preferentially along them , as is the case here .
A bull is a male member of cattle , a domesticated kind of bovine . A steer is a castrated bull . An ox is a bovine trained to do work like plowing . Note this is somewhat simplified , bull can be applied to other male animals and bovines , and the terms in general can experience some variation in usage overall . And indeed , other terms entirely can refer to the same variants in different regions .
Both , it depends on the picture . I actually worked for Getty once as a SA and then as a PA to the CEO of the company . There are RF pics , royalty free , and RM rights managed . RF photos can be used over and over but RM can not and are more exclusive . Getty has thousands .. millions of stock photos , many of which are RF.Magazines get charged specific rates based on size of image and relationship with Getty . The other photos , such as photos of celebrities are of course the property of the Getty photog who retains their ownership as well as Getty though since they are employed by them , these also fall under RM . If that makes sense ? For the everyday person who has a photo they want , Getty buys your photo so that it may be licensed to others for usage , the original owner always retains the copyright to the photo though . I 'm sorry this answer is n't better it was years ago that I worked for them and wondered this very thing . They have a lot of money and just dominate the field aside from AP .
You 've got it backwards . In the United States alone , the absolute maximum speed varies between 60 ( Hawaii ) to 80 ( Utah and part of Texas . ) There 's also a tiny area in Texas where it 's legal to go 85 , probably for no other reason than to put speed traps on the other side of it to catch people exiting at 85 . ( What can you do ? It 's ~~Chinatown~~ Texas . ) Then when you factor in the maximum speeds of various other countries and the Autobahn with essentially no speed limit at all , a car manufacturer is forced to come to the conclusion that it 's better to make a car with a higher maximum speed and not need it than make a car that needs a higher maximum speed and does n't have it . Plus , it costs money to actually limit the maximum speed of an automobile without just * * gimping * * the engine . Sure , you can design a car with a low top speed , but that often goes hand - and - hand with crappy acceleration and there 's no law against accelerating aggressively . Indeed , there are many situations where it 's preferable . You can do it with a rev limiter ( I used to have one on an old Buick , I think ) but it 's cheaper just to put nothing in the
The braille dots can be so arranged , but then that would be using a writing system designed for eyes , but by using fingers instead of eyes . It would be using the wrong tool for the job . The alphabet is optimized for reading with eyes and loses its advantages when read by finger . Therefore it 's better to use a system that is designed for the fingers , even if it 's difficult to read with the eyes .
Frequency ( Ghz ) is the clock rate or a tick where each tick the processor does work . Imagine a row boat with people rowing and a drummer that keeps the beat . Each time the drummer hits the drum ( tick ) the rowers row once and the boat moves . If the drummer hits the drum faster the rowers row faster . This is frequency or the Ghz speed of the processor . The faster the ticks , the faster work gets done . However , newer processors have more cores and better / efficient architecture that does calculations more efficiently . Instead of a boat with 2 rowers , a new multi - core CPU might have say 4 rowers or 8 rowers so more work is done per row . Also imagine a lighter and more streamlined boat or each rower is beefier and stronger . That 's how newer CPUs are .
Well , evaporation and boiling are two separate phenomenon . Evaporation relies on the moisture content of the surrounding air . So , on a humid day things dry out slowly and on a dry day they dry out quicker . Boiling has to do with heating water until it changes from liquid to gas . You can do this regardless of whether the air around the water is more humid or less humid .
In Holland it works like this : If you transact money from one account to the other at the same bank , it takes a couple of minutes . If you transact it to an account at another bank it takes 1 or 2 days , because of these reasons that I found online : - Banks only transact money at one time each day . They collect all small payments and add them together since each transaction costs money . For example ; if bank A has to pay 2 million to bank B , and bank B has to pay 1 million to bank A , it 's wiser to let Bank A just pay 1 million to bank B. - The payments are handled by a national transactioner and they take time to do this . How it 's done in the US , I do n't know . But the first option sounds the most plausible .
This will probably require asking the SO to sign a quitclaim and/or to "sell" him her share of the vehicle's ownership and getting it re-titled in his own name alone, which is the question you actually asked. To cancel the cosigner arrangement, he has to pay off the loan. If he can't or doesn't want to do that in cash, he'd have to qualify for a new loan to refinasnce in his name only, or get someone else (such as yourself) to co-sign. Alternatively, he might sell the car (or something else) to pay what he still owes on it. As noted in other answers, this kind of mess is why you shouldn't get into either cosigning or joint ownership without a written agreement spelling out exactly what happens should one of the parties wish to end this arrangement. Doing business with friends is still doing business.
The silhouette makes it look like it 's spinning , while it 's only doing a ' half spin ' . But because you can not make out the different limbs clearly , then you brain assumes that it goes one direction , until you notice something strange about it , and it goes in the other . On a sunny day , go outside and take your palm , and where you see a shadow , turn your hand left , , and then right , and you 'll always spin it a quarter in one direction , and a quarter in the other , but in the shadow it will have the same effect as the dancing woman .
You contact a company to do business with . Most commonly they are called investment banks or brokers . Some exist only online , some have fancy offices with advisors to help you . You contact one of these companies and open an account with them . Give them a cheque to deposit into this account . Then you instruct them to buy stocks as you wish . As for when to sell . You should sell when you do not think the stock will raise in value , hopefully this point exists at a price that is more than what you paid for it . There are no " rules " like , hold it for 1892 days then sell . You sell whenever you think it 's a good plan to sell .
They act in opposite directions . If an object is stationary in its spin , that is , it is not moving in or out of the radius , then there is a centripetal force pulling it towards the center and a centrifugal force pulling it away . Centripetal is usually due to something like gravity or a solid link like a thread , while centrifugal force naturally exists as the objects linear inertia resists the pull
A bunch of alley cats are holding a competition to find the greatest cat who will rule over the cat kingdom from the ' heavyside layer ' . This cat must sacrifice their own life at dawn but be reborn as the spirit of mischief and independence that is in all cats . While this is happening , a second group of cats , led by the evil Macavity is trying to stop the ceremony and summon the soul of an evil cat demon who will rekindle a long - dormant war between cats and dogs . An old cat named Deuteronomy who is basically a messiah - type figure is betrayed , kidnapped and killed by the evil cats . This turns the tide of the battle in the favor of of Macavity 's forces and throws the good cats into disorder and confusion . Just when all hope seems lost and the dawn is about to break an ancient sorcerer cat , named Grizabella summons the spirit of the Moon Demon , Magical Mr. Mistoffelees . The summoned spirit promptly steals Grizabella 's life force to resurrect Deuteronomy . There is an epic final battle where the forces of good ultimately triumph . Grizabella 's soul is elevated to the ' heavyside layer ' and she prepares to reign as the queen of the cat kingdom .
For me , prolonged use on the Internet affects my reading habits . The Internet is consistent with one characteristic : distraction . Between hyperlinks and the never - ending stream of updates on Facebook or even Reddit , your working memory is overstimulated which leads to shallower processing of information . Spend 30 - 40 hours on the Internet each week and soon you start to process all information in the same way . At least that 's what I seem to experience .
I 'm not an expert in any of this , but seeing as how the topic has no replies as of this writing , I felt like putting in my two cents . > What did Hulu do to get around adblock Technical stuff . Hulu uses a specialized , closed - source video player designed to show the ads without fail . They 're likely serving the ads from exactly the same servers as their own videos , making it impossible for simple Adblock to block them without also blocking the full videos . By contrast , most ads on the web are essentially a " widget " from a third - party company that is hosted on a different server from the content website , and is easily blacklisted . > why does n't every site just do it ? The simplest answer is that a combination of factors lead to most sites not going for hardcore enforcement of ads , while Hulu does . * The majority of people on the web overall do n't use ad - blocking software . * Many sites which are ad - supported are small , and they consider * any * page view to be a good one , whether ads are blocked by that user or not . If they like it , they 'll tell their friends , increasing the chances of non - adblocking page views . * Most ads are static content on a webpage ,
Let 's say you have a really , really , really sharp knife . So you use it to cut up a grain of salt . How small could you get ? Could you just cut it up forever , into ever tinier and tinier pieces ? If we cut up salt , we 're going to get tinier and tinier pieces . But eventually we get down to one piece that is so small ( too small to actually see ) that if we cut it up , it is n't really salt any more . That one piece of salt is what we call a * molecule * , and it is made up of one * atom * each of two different natural substances ... sodium and chlorine ( NaCl ) . Sodium and chlorine by themselves are n't really anything like salt . It 's only when they are combined in that particular way that we get the stuff we call salt . They each have very particular properties when they are on their own , and are quite different than salt . For example , chlorine tends to make a poisonous gas ! And if you throw a big chunk of pure sodium into water , look out ... it will probably explode . But put the two things together and it makes common table salt , which we eat all the time . Weird , huh ? We used to think that atoms were
As others have mentioned , cement is an ingredient in concrete . But an important detail is why we use concrete instead of cement . It turns out that one reason cement is so strong is that it creates a crystaline structure that grows over time ( which is why cement and concrete get stronger over time ) . But while the crystals are strong in terms of compression , it can fracture along the planes of the crystal . This is similar to how diamonds are cut or sometimes even break in someone 's ring when dropped . Even though diamond is the hardest naturally occurring material , a hit at the right place at the right angle will cause the crystal to break along one of the crystal planes . So how do you make cement stronger ? You make sure the crystals do n't grow too big to prevent this type of breaking . To do this , you add sand and/or rock . The crystal structure stops and a new crystal has to start in a new direction . The fact that the crystals are small and have random orientations mean it 's very difficult to cause this crystal breaking . That 's why concrete is stronger than cement .
Not sure what you mean , there are various American accents as well that are portrayed in movies . A guy from Texas is n't going to speak the same way as a guy from New York , and a guy from New York does n't speak the same way as a guy from California . These accents are solidified in plenty of movies .
To add to this , the ' core ' musculature is usually a reference to the abdominals , which are often separated into the superficial unit , which is comprised of muscles like the rectus abdominus ( the six pack muscle ) , erector spinae and obliques , and the more intrinsic unit , which is comprised of muscles like the diaphragm , pelvic floor , multifidis and transverse abdominus . When these interact properly , they allow you to produce and maintain internal pressure that stabilises your spine and keeps it in a strong , healthy position during dynamic movement . However , many people have lost the ability to activate and contract these muscles properly as a result of chronic inactivity and bad body position ( such as sitting ) . As above , the ' core ' needs to be trained as an integrated unit in movement , and its role is essentially to resist motion in order to keep your body in a strong position and provide a base for everything else to move around . I know it 's not really the simple ELI5 explanation but just to add to the good explanation above ...
I can not speak about how they are implemented but I know a bit about the origins of the words themselves . There are several cases and they do differ from language to language . This refers mostly to western surnames that exist in either romance or germanic languages . A lot of surnames , referred to as " patronymics " , derive from the name of the father . This is very common in spanish / portuguese ( for example : Alvarez is the offspring of Alvaro , Martinez is the offspring of Martin ) . It is even more visible in english , e.g. Peterson ( son of Peter ) . Other names can come from the family trade ( very common in German : " schumacher " ( shoemaker ) , " Mueller " ( miller ) , " Schmidt " ( smith ) . Surnames can also refer to places ( toponymic ) , sometimes coming with a prefix to indicate where the family comes from ( de , of , van ) , or simply as a reference to a feature of a certain place ( for example , " Wood " ) . I 'd say these are the most common reasonings behind surnames but I have also seen instances where a simple nickname for a person ends up as the surname of his kids , but this is not as common . Hope this helps . :)
Years ago ( think late 1800 's , early 1900 's ) , a 6th grade education was considered " educated " . You could read , write and do math . That alone would be enough to get you off the farm and working for a respectable company . A college education was only for rich people . Later ... WWII or so - a high school education became more popular . You could still get a decent job with a 6th grade education , but you could do even better with a HS education . A college education guaranteed you a good , well paying job right after graduation . Companies would start recruiting people while they were still in college . Around the 60 's the whole 6th grade education pretty much just dropped off the map . HS was required . College still guaranteed a well paying job , but getting a job before graduation became less common . Over the past , oh probably 20 years or so , a college education has replaced what a high school education used to be . A HS education is today what a 6th grade education was back in the 50 's . A bachelor 's degree is what a HS education used to be , and an advanced degree ( masters / PhD ) is what a college education used to be .
Technically they can - I 've seen Blue Screens as well as Green ones . Usually you stick to a color that contrasts and does not blend in with the live props - e.g. if you used white or black , you would be unable to use anything white or black in the scene . by using a particularly vibrant green , it makes it easier to set up a scene where you do n't have to worry about someone 's necktie accidentally getting added to the CGI effect .
It all depends on the job . I have gone on interviews without a tie and completely unshaven . The employer did nt care because my skillset was what they needed . The other answer is that beards allow you to distort your face . It can make it more difficult for an employer to get a good read on you when interviewing . It can also be distracting .
you need minimum of 25k otherwise youll reach a limit. you have to wait 3 days for the sale to clear unless youre on margin. dont buy anything based on idiots on twitter or the internet. however, theres some good people to follow though that know what theyre doing. dont listen to this guy saying that etrade or those platforms arent fast enough. they all offer level 2 prices so i dont know what hes talking about. successful day traders arent buying and selling a stock every single day. theres not always something to buy and sell...unless youre just gambling, and in that case just go to the casino and lose your money there.
It depends on the country . In the US we no longer have a draft . We have a fully volunteer service and those that are on active duty are the ones that get mobilized when we are in conflict . This is how most nations in the West Operate . Those with mandatory service for everyone are not too dissimilar . They have a standing army that is active duty and in many cases a semi - active reserve that they will mobilize as needed . The only time that they will " force everyone " to get into the military is with a full draft which at this point in time would require a conflict far larger than WWI and WWII combined . It would be massive , with a massive amount of death .
Probably not . The general conclusion is the universe is infinite , and it would all have the cosmic microwave background radiation ( photons left over from the big bang ) all throughout it . Hence , infinite photons . Unless of course you mean the observable universe , that being the universe that 's within the distance that light could have traveled away from us since the beginning of time . This universe is a finite sphere around us . In the observable universe there would be a finite amount of photons . Though , the number would be astonishingly large . The cosmic microwave background radiation as I mentioned before would actually be the majority of the photons ( not star light ) , and the density of that is about 500 million photons per m^3 . The observable universe is 4x10 ^ 80 m^3 in volume . So that 's at least 2x10 ^ 89 photons , or 2 followed by 89 zeroes . As for created or destroyed , yes , both can happen to photons . Any time light ( and by light I mean radio waves , microwaves , infrared , visible , ultraviolet , x - rays , and gamma rays ) are emitted photons are created . Any time light is absorbed , photons are destroyed . Most commonly , photons are emitted by electrons accelerating or changing their energy , and vice versa for destroying . When electrical current goes back
There was a Roman ... architect / poet / miscellaneous named Vitruvius , who wrote about the proportions of the human body ; that people are typically about as tall as they can reach from fingertip to fingertip , etc . Leonardo da Vinci , who you may have heard of , was a much later Italian artist ( and engineer , and anatomist , which means he studied the way the body is put together . ) He read Vitruvius ' writing , and drew a picture of a man to show all of Vitruvius ' ideas about proportions . He showed several different poses at the same time , so you can see two arms on each side , and two legs . That drawing was very well done , but it was , really , nothing extra - extra - ordinary . But because it was made by Leonardo , and because it 's easy to understand what the artist was doing ( and because it survived until the present day ) it became very famous . Along with the * Mona Lisa , * it 's just about the most famous of his works .
~~tl;dr * * Unlike on the head and face , the follicles in some areas of your body tend to fall out periodically and grow periodically.~~ ~~Say you sampled two folicles at once . One might be in its growth stage and might be a few mm long . One might be fully grown and would no longer be getting any longer . The long one would fall out in a time while the shorter one remains and grows until it reaches the end of its own growth phase at about the same length as the other hair.~~ ~~By the time it falls out,~~ ~~the follicle responsible for the hair that fell out a while ago might already be back in its growth phase,~~ ~~creating a new hair.~~ * edit . Turns out I was totally wrong . Leaving the comment with strikethrough to avoid confusion .
it is hard to compare performance across different generations . One reason why it is hard to say one is better is because there are lots of ways to be better . What best for you means is different depending on how you use your computer . GHz means billions of cycles per second , basically how many times per second that the CPU does something . That sounds very standard , like it is something that you could compare across different processors but actually there is a lot of difference between what a processor can get done in one cycle . Modern processors can get more than one thing done in one cycle ( even on one core ) . Do n't ask me how . In general the later the generation the more the processor can get done . Core i5 vs i7 is a bit tricky . When Intel is making processors they try to make everything on the chip work , but that is very hard . Often a few parts of it do n't work . Other parts can make up for the broken parts but it will be a little slower in which case they label it an i5 or i3 . If too many things are broken on one they throw it out . For the processor to get something done it needs some information to work on . It could pull that information from the hard drive but that would really slow
There is n't any way to enforce them . What are you going to do ? Arrest them for breaking a promise ? Exactly how many normal citizens would go to jail every day if that were illegal ? And who gets to judge what is a broken promise ? Politicians are very good at phrasing things as to not get too specific ; most western democracies require negotiation so there 's no way to " promise " much of anything . But giving the government the power to " enforce " a politician who breaks a promise is a recipe for abuse of power . And sometimes politicians just make mistakes and/or get in office and realize things are harder than they seem . It may be easy to be against issue X , and then realize once you get in office that you have to ease up on issue X if you want to change issue Y and Z. That 's the nature of a western democracy . Really , the only way -- and , to be honest , the best way -- is to let the votes decide whether a broken promise is bad enough to not re - elect a politician .
Math can be thought of as a language . The same as you know " a car " refers to the four - wheeled vehicle , you can say the word " a car " and know that me too will then understand and associate it with that four wheel metal box . Language could not work if we had differing opinions about what " a car " means . If you thought it meant lunch box , then we 'd be really confused both of us , and ultimately we probably could n't understand each other at all . Mathematics is the same . To be able to communicate calculation of adding two to three , and multiplying that result with 5 , you could write it out like that . However , because we have mathematical symbols , you could just write that as ( 2 + 3 ) * 5 , which is much easier once you understand the language of these symbols . You could , if you wanted to , leave it at that , always using parenthesis to indicate which order to do operations in . But actually , it turns out you can save the effort of writing bunch of parenthesis if everyone agrees on some order of operations in which one should calculate these operations in . The default way . You would still sometimes need parenthesis , sure , but for some cases the order of operations would be the same
This is a handwavy explanation and a hard core physicist would find lots to object to , but I find that it gives an intuitive feel to the answer . OK its is important to note that time is only relative - e.g. if all the clocks in the universe slowed down by half , you would not notice anything ( because your clock has slowed too ) - there is no absolute time . Second - if one type of clock slows down then they all will ( more on that later ) . So lets look at a simple clock - say a light beam bouncing between two mirrors that are on a spacecraft are moving very fast ( close to light ) . Lets call the time taken for a light beam to make a round trip a " mirrsec " . If you are travelling with the mirrors then you will not see anything unusual . But if you are " stationary " looking into the spaceship then you will see something different . One half of the lights trip will be very fast , but the return trip will appear very slow as it is struggling to catch up with the mirror . The net effect is that you think that a " mirrsec " on the fast moving spacecraft takes a long time - e.g. their time has slowed compared to yours . ( to complicate things your measurement of their space will also
Salt water freezes at a lower temperature then regular water , so as the salt hits the ice , it lowers the freezing point . But sometimes it is so cold out that this wo n't matter , and road crews will often switch to a sand/ salt mix . Not to melt it completely , but to add traction .
Everything 's moving really fast but it 's been moving really fast for a * long time * - we 're talking about 13 * * billion * * years . All that shit 's already obscenely far apart and ridiculously far away . The spaces involved are so great that nothing has really moved noticeably in the 200k years or so that humans have existed . If something is moving a million miles per hour towards something that 's a million million miles away , it only moves at .000000000024 % of the distance in a day .
Surprised this has n't been answered in detail yet , but basically there are two camps . 1 . It never happened at all . It was entirely made up out of whole cloth . 2 . Something happened , but there were not millions killed like the history books say . The numbers are in the thousands . The first camp is much like those who say 9/11 was an inside job or deny the moon landing happened . Any evidence you present them is dismissed because it was clearly falsified . Pictures ? Faked . People 's testimonies ? People lie for all kinds of reasons . The millions of people who are n't here any more ? Migrated other places or the records were doctored . Here is where they tend to blend with the second camp . The second camp says the Holocaust was overblown . I 'm at work so I ca n't look up the actual numbers , but I believe it 's in the tens of millions . That may be low . The second camp says that really that number is in the thousands . These thousands were systematically executed either , but they were POWs and political prisoners . Right or wrong , countries take political prisoners during war and some of those prisoners die . This is basically what happened . The millions who disappeared from the record books ? They migrated elsewhere and are lost to history due to
Google Chrome is n't about making money so much , and its more about market leverage . The more people that use Chrome , the more control Google have over things like browser standards ( in the form of proposals to the W3C ) But back to your actual question , there are a number of ways : * Selling technical support and services * As a loss leader to attract people to commercial software they make * Selling commercial versions of software that 's free for personal use ( Avast Antivirus is a good example ) * Corporate sponsorship . A lot of open - source software is funded this way . Companies find it useful , so they donate to the projects in order to make sure the software is kept updated . * In - app advertisements . Lots of mobile apps do this , as well as things like Evernote . But as with the Chrome thing , sometimes software is free because companies have a motive that is n't directly related to raw revenue , or may be part of a much longer term strategy .
Charles Babbage KH FRS (/ˈbæbɪdʒ/; 26 December 1791 – 18 October 1871) was an English polymath. A mathematician, philosopher, inventor and mechanical engineer, Babbage originated the concept of a digital programmable computer. Babbage is considered by some to be "father of the computer". Babbage is credited with inventing the first mechanical computer, the Difference Engine, that eventually led to more complex electronic designs, though all the essential ideas of modern computers are to be found in Babbage's Analytical Engine, programmed using a principle openly borrowed from the Jacquard loom. Babbage had a broad range of interests in addition to his work on computers covered in his book Economy of Manufactures and Machinery. His varied work in other fields has led him to be described as "pre-eminent" among the many polymaths of his century. Babbage, who died before the complete successful engineering of many of his designs, including his Difference Engine and Analytical Engine, remained a prominent figure in the ideating of computing. Parts of Babbage's incomplete mechanisms are on display in the Science Museum in London. In 1991, a functioning difference engine was constructed from Babbage's original plans. Built to tolerances achievable in the 19th century, the success of the finished engine indicated that Babbage's machine would have worked.
There are many reasons for this ; one of the many reasons is that it allows the creators of the DVD to cater to different markets . For example , I visited the Philippines over the summer . DVDs there were the equivalent of $ 2 a piece ( yes it was legit , not pirated ) . And here in the US I 'm paying $ 20 to $ 30 for a DVD . Why ? Region locking . If there was n't region locking , nothing is stopping me from importing hundreds of DVDs from other countries to here . Since the cost of living is a lot lower in the Philippines , they ca n't reasonably charge the same price they do here , so they region lock their DVD to work only in the Philippines -- and this way they can charge a lot less because American 's ca n't import DVDs . Of course , this has changed because computers can play DVDs regardless of region , so it 's relatively pointless nowadays , but that 's one reason .
A class is a place where you put a bunch of related things together in a program . For example , a Point has an x coordinate and a y coordinate . A Rectangle consists of a Point that is its location , a length and a width . The Rectangle class also defines certain behavior- it can calculate its own area and perimeter , and given another rectangle , it can check to see if the two Rectangles intersect . Because Rectangle is a class , it means I can create many different Rectangles that all know how to do those things . In code , this would look like ( assuming Java class syntax ): class Point { public int x ; public int y ; } class Rectangle { public Point location ; public int width ; public int height ; public int area ( ) { return length * width ; } public int perimeter ( ) { return 2 * length + 2 * width ; } public boolean intersects(Rectangle other ) { / * implementation left as exercise to the reader * / return false ; }
This is n't necessarily the case . There are plenty of cases in - which the US has installed , propped up , or allied with dictatorships . Generally , this is done for geo - strategic reasons ( ie . Panama ) , or for regional influence and resource interests ( Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Iran ) , and ocasionally during the cold war just to stick it to the commies . ( most CIA backed South American coupes ) .
The thing microsoft really want to avoid is lock - in . If everyone is using google search , then they are more prone to using google mail , or google maps . In particular google docs is a huge threat to microsoft and the office suite - so as well as looking to make money with bing they also want to drive people to microsoft apps
> I mean , it evaporates before 100 degrees , so why is it the boiling point ? Evaporation is n't the same as boiling . If the average energy of the water is high enough that it can become water vapor , then it 's boiling . Evaporation happens when water molecules are running into each other near the surface of the water , and the energy transferred in one of those is one - sided enough that a particular water molecule can make the transition to water vapor .
Meteorologist here . :) The sun constantly introduces new solar radiation at the equator , this is stronger than at the poles due to the [ angle ] ( URL_2 ) the poles are to the sun , this radiation difference leads to a temperature difference at the surface . The areas of higher temperature along the equator cause areas of unstable air ( or lower pressure ) ( this is due to the relationship between [ boyle 's ] ( URL_0 ) laws of ideal gases ) . This air rises , loses its moisture in the process , and moves towards the poles as it is cooler . The Coriolis Effect moves this air and starts it spinning which is how we get what are known as the Trade Winds . This air cools in the higher atmosphere due to [ adiabatic cooling ] ( URL_1 ) . This air is now cool and starts to sink . It sinks over the sub - tropics and causes areas of high pressure without any moisture . This is why the sub tropics i.e Sahara , middle Australia are very dry , and the tropics are very wet in general . tl;dr The Earth is receiving solar radiation unevenly , this causes temperature differences , which causes areas of high and low pressure to form .
Oh Lord no . Desktop software is completely different to web software . Web apps are * interpreted * , meaning your browser reads the source and converts it into computer instructions . Languages like C , on the other hand , are * compiled * , meaning the developer converts the human - readable source into machine instructions and only sends you those . Machine instructions will make zero sense even to 95 % of programmers .
if i understand this correctly , its basically just shifting the infra red spectrum so it can be seen . ( electronically , with a sensor and a screen ) URL_1 its always there , we just are not equipped to see it . life would be weird if we could see somewhere up to fm frequencies . URL_0 suprisingly eli 5
Production yields . When making a set , you have generally 2 sheets of glass with circuitry and semiconductors deposited between them . There are backups built - in to some aspects of this . The manufacturing is being done on a microscopic level , in clean rooms . But errors and mistakes in the process still happen , regularly . If there are enough mistakes on a screen , the manufacturer has to throw it out . The bigger the screen is , the higher chance that it will contain too many mistakes to become a finished product . The whole thing has to be scrapped . We call this the production yield . What percentage of screens we try to manufacture do we actually succeed at ? This is very high for small screens . 90%+ maybe for the tiny screens for cell phones . But it falls the bigger the screen gets . The longer you manufacture at a bigger size and the more experience you have with it , the better you can make your yield though . So not only do bigger screens cost more because they use more materials in them , they cost more because they are harder to successfully manufacture . More " duds " are produced that the manufacturer still paid to make , but is unable to sell .
They can challenge the brethalyzing equipment if it 's not properly calibrated , or the sobriety test if it 's not properly administered . They can challenge the basis for the stop in the first instance . They can also do a lot to mitigate the sentence . There are more ways to challenge a DUI than you migh think . And since the defendant is usually facing some pretty dramatic penalties , a good attorney can do a lot to help . Edit : I a word .
[ The Beatles sold the rights to their catalog of music back in the 1960s . ] ( URL_1 ) It 's been owned by many people , most famously by Michael Jackson , who made almost as much money on Beatles royalties as on his own music . I do n't know if Apple Computer has any ownership in Beatles music , but you might be confused by [ Apple Records ] ( URL_2 ) . Long before Steve Jobs was in business , The Beatles named their record company Apple . There was actually [ a lawsuit between the computer company and the record label , because of conflicting trademarks . ] ( URL_0 )
Hardware acceleration is the use of computer hardware designed to perform specific functions more efficiently when compared to software running on a general-purpose central processing unit (CPU). Any transformation of data that can be calculated in software running on a generic CPU can also be calculated in custom-made hardware, or in some mix of both. To perform computing tasks more quickly (or better in some other way), generally one can invest time and money in improving the software, improving the hardware, or both. There are various approaches with advantages and disadvantages in terms of decreased latency, increased throughput and reduced energy consumption. Typical advantages of focusing on software may include more rapid development, lower non-recurring engineering costs, heightened portability, and ease of updating features or patching bugs, at the cost of overhead to compute general operations. Advantages of focusing on hardware may include speedup, reduced power consumption, lower latency, increased parallelism and bandwidth, and better utilization of area and functional components available on an integrated circuit; at the cost of lower ability to update designs once etched onto silicon and higher costs of functional verification, and times to market. In the hierarchy of digital computing systems ranging from general-purpose processors to fully customized hardware, there is a tradeoff between flexibility and efficiency, with efficiency increasing by orders of magnitude when any given application is implemented higher up that hierarchy. This hierarchy includes general-purpose processors such as CPUs, more specialized processors such as GPUs, fixed-function implemented on field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs),
It 's either , but Iran is the dominant and traditional name in Iran . The name " Persia " was made by Greeks , inspired by the tribe known as the Pars . It 's similar to how most Romance languages name Germany as " Allemagne " despite the Alemanni being only one of many ancient tribes in the modern German territory - that 's who the foreigners had the most interaction with or thought most important .
Couple points to fully understand . Canada has 5 main parties , not 2 like the US . Only one of the 5 parties is ' right ' the rest are moderate to left . Also : the PM is n't elected by popular vote like the president or something . Instead he is just a member of parliament like anyone else . Then he is elected from the members of the house of commons ( it 's always the leader of the ' majority ' party ) Think Harry Reid or John Beohner , not Obama . So , roughly only 33 % of Canadians voted for his party ( they one a majority because the ' left ' and ' moderate ' votes got split so hard ) . Even less than that voted for Harper himself . Furthermore he s doing all sorts of ' right ' things . Austerity , removal of environmental protections , and so forth . Which 66 % of people in the last election did n't vote for .
because games are more often than not being released before they are ready . it takes a few months to manufacture and distribute all those game disks to meet a release date . so they put whatever is ready at the time to manufacture the disks and then just release the remaining as a day 1 patch . in some cases , the day 1 update have been basically the entire game that needs to be redownloaded . in the past , there was no ability to issue online updates . so what was ready at the time , had to be the final version .
This gets asked , frequently . Be sure to use the search bar " ELI5 : Socialism " before you ask a question . You bet , it has been asked many times before and many people have explained different aspects of it . Edit : And I 'm not trying to talk down to you or offend you at all . If you DO search right now , you will get enough information . LOTS of it . :)
THANK YOU AND PLEASED TO ANSWER YOUcreatine phosphokinase elevations can be found without any health complaints. CPK elevated levels enzyme come from the muscles active work. muscles release CPK that tends to increase with heavy exercise. To make the things clear front of asymptomatic CPK increase, doctor check it again after 1 or 2 weeks exercise rest.Some drug has as side effects a rhabdomyolysis ("rhabdo" and "myo" for "rod-shaped muscle"; "lysis" for "breakdown") like statins. In obese patients, CPK value is not correlated to obesity checked by BODY MASS INDEX (BMI).Prednisone a corticosteroids drug, is not well for you as you are very obese and you might gain weight with it, and you are suffering from heart diseases, then you have to lose weight. Corticosteroids increase blood glucose, then you are asked to not use corticosteroids. Hypothyroidism often causes weakness, cramps, myalgia, and a mild to moderate serum CPK elevation.Serum CK levels are strongly affected by race, sex, and physical activity.A patient with truly elevated levels should be evaluated for a variety of nonneuromuscular causes, including endocrine disorders, metabolic disturbances, drug effects, and malignancy.If you are diagnosed Asymptomatic, no Treatment Exists and Course is Often BenignMAY THIS OPINION HELP YOUbest wishes
Your question is a little unclear to me -- does water remain the same as it changes states through various cycles ? Do you mean does the amount of water stay the same ? Or do you mean does the water itself somehow change at a more fundamental level ? I 'll try and answer both since it 's interesting to think about . We all are familiar with water 's different forms : ice , liquid , steam and are taught that they are all " water " . But if we 're going to try and measure all the water on the earth we should probably ask ourselves how do we know that something is actually water ? After all , if you grew up in a hot climate and then later in life got on a ship and sailed somewhere and saw an iceberg for the first time you would probably not realise that it was made of the same stuff as the ocean . Also , the gasoline that powers cars [ appears similar to liquid water ] ( URL_1 ) but it 's also obviously not the same , it can catch fire while water can not . So what 's the difference ? You need to understand that water is really a collection of zillions of unbelievably small components ( molecules ) that are all exactly the same . We call a substance water when it is built from these particular molecules . It
Do you mean in surgery ? If so : in order to put on the gloves you have to touch the gloves , even if on just the inside , better to be clean . Also the gloves can rip and better to be clean than dirty . After you feel the urge to wash because you have been sweating inside of the glove . Before surgery you do wash and disinfect your arms , all the way to the elbow , just as carefully as the hands .
Your car has a gas pedal , a brake pedal , and a clutch pedal . The brake stops the car , the gas speeds up the car , and the clutch allows you to level up your gas pedal . Think of Mario Kart . Princess starts zippy and but her top speed is n't so good . Koopa starts slow but at top speed he is very fast . Mario is in the middle category . Switching gears from 1 through 5 is like switching from Princess to Mario to Koopa as you are driving . The way you switch gears is to hold down the clutch while you move the stick shift to the number you want . If you are at a dead stop , you want to be in 1 so that you can take off fast ( like Princess ) . Then , when you hit Princess ' top speed you want to switch to 2 , and then when you hit that top speed you switch to 3 , then to 4 , and then finally if you are getting on the highway then you want to use Koopa because he has the best top speed . ( Adult explanation : step on the clutch whenever you move the stick shift , then step off of the clutch when you 've made your selection . If you do n't hold down the clutch while shifting then the gearbox makes a loudass grinding noise
If you read through the 9/11 commission report you will see that the terrorists used a lot of forms of communication even in the USA leading up to the attacks . Everything from making numerous phone calls to various middle eastern countries , laundering hundreds of thousands of dollars , having suspicious " trial run " plane tickets bought etc .. After the government realized this they knew they had to monitor some forms of communication if they wanted to prevent attacks in the future . These surveillance programs , originally with noble intentions , have arguably gotten out of control and there may be insufficient oversight that has led to American citizens data being swooped up and stored . Also , some of this same technology developed for the intention of stopping attacks has also been put to use spying on our allies .... because as the poster above said , " information is power " .
[ Oh how little you know . ] ( URL_2 ) Alright lets see , [ how can I LI5 this ... ] ( URL_8 ) . When you [ read a lot of stories ] ( URL_1 ) or perhaps TV shows- or Cartoons ! - do you ever notice something that happens [ that seems familiar ] ( URL_3 ) ? Like you saw something similar happening in other books and cartoons ? That 's a trope ! It 's not just events though , it can also be things about a character such as [ what they look like ] ( URL_5 ) , [ how they act ] ( URL_6 ) , [ their relationships with other characters ] ( URL_9 ) , etc . It can also be about [ the setting ] ( URL_0 ) ! And sometimes they are even [ based off of , or occur in reality . ] ( URL_7 ) But they are [ not cliches ! ] ( URL_10 ) Okay well sometimes they are ... or rather , cliches are a kind of trope . But really the best way to understand tropes is to [ click around on links within the articles ] ( URL_4 ) on TV Tropes and just wander around .
It depends on the material . The crinkly ones , like the one you get at walmart is made from HDPE ( High Density Polyethylene ) material . That material rustles and makes louds noises easily . There are also bags made from LDPE ( Low Density Polyethylene ) and the material is naturally softer and does n't make the loud rustling noises you hear . This type of material is more commonly found in garbage bags and produce rolls . Source : I make bags for a living .
A supercharger and turbocharger do the same thing , which is force more air into an engine to make more power . The difference is how they do this . A supercharger connects directly to an engine , and is attached to the crankshaft with a belt . As you rev the engine , the belt attached to the supercharger speeds up , forcing more air into the engine . A turbocharger instead is connected to the exhaust pipes , and it uses the exhaust gases to move the turbines , which force more air into the engine . The advantage of a supercharger is that it has instant power , as a turbo needs time to spool up from the exhaust gases . The con of a supercharger is that it takes power to make power , so you have potential power gains . A turbo makes power from wasted exhaust gases , giving greater potential power gains .
Most stocks are not actively trades by lots of people. When you buy or sell a stock the price is set by the “order book” – that is the other people looking to trade in the given stock at the same time. Without a large number of active traders, it is very likely the pricing system will break down and result in widely changing prices second by second. Therefore for the market to work well, it need most people to be trading at the same time.
Most US Credit Card Companies and Banks offer ' fraud protection ' . This is considered a cheaper alternative than replacing and servicing millions of credit - card processing machines throughout the country . Either way , from what I understand - rollout of these machines has already begun . I expect chipped cards to be common within the next 5 years .
There are multiple types of fraternities and sororities , all of which are essentially clubs for college students , generally named by a combination of Greek letters . A sorority has only female members . A fraternity has either only males or both sexes . The only exception to this concept is that some female - only groups were founded before sorority was a word , so they refer to themselves as fraternities . One type is honor fraternities and sororities . Membership in these organizations is based upon academic performance . These organizations exist mainly for networking and effectively to give members another credential to put on their resumes . They may also have special programs like a lecture series or community service events . EDIT : There are also pre - professional and professional fraternities and sororities that have a similar function , except that they are limited to certain academic specialties . For example , there are fraternities specifically for pre - meds . The second kind of fraternities and sororities is the community service fraternity or sorority . Members simply join together to do philanthropy . The third type is the social fraternity or sorority . This is generally what comes to mind when people think of Greek organizations . As the name suggests , they 're social clubs that exist at many colleges , particularly in the US . Members of these organizations generally live in a " frat house " or sorority house for
" Arabic numerals " is a misleading name . They are actually from India , and became popular in the Arab world , which at the time , was a great place of science , mathematics , and trade . Around 1000 CE Europeans began encountering these numbers the Arabs were using and referred to them as " Arabic numerals " , as they were the numbers used by Arabs . Around 1500 CE a lot of Europe had adopted the system , because it was very good , however there was much debate about adopting it since you can easily alter a number to look like another ( for example a 1 can easily be changed to a 4 or 9 ) , it is quite more difficult when working with roman numerals to easily alter the values .
In a nutshell, not really. That's the risk you take when you co-sign for someone. The lender only made the loan because of the strength of your brother's credit, not your mother's, so his reputation (in the form of his credit rating) is going to take the hit because of his mother's behaviors. The one thing he can do is this: The credit bureaus allow you to add a comment or explanation to your credit file which may be helpful, provided potential creditors read it, which is never a guarantee. It's worth trying though, so suggest to him to look into it. Here's a link for him/you/anyone to look at that can help explain how this works and what effects it can have: Adding a comment to your credit file for negative items I hope this helps. Good luck!
Hello,Welcome to HCM.I appreciate your concern for your son.Treatment of amebiasis basically consist of two different kind of antibiotics, one for clearing amoeba from intestine and one for clearing amoeba from tissues like liver, blood, etc. Former is mostly iodoquinol, diloxanide furoate or paromomycine and later is metronidazole, tinidazole, sacnidazole or ornidazole. Treatment duration may range from 3-20 days based upon the antibiotic used.If you child has received both these kind of antibiotics than he has given proper treatment.Once your baby recovers from the infection, he will develop antibodies against the infection which may persist for long time (several years). So, antibody detection test will come positive till several years after infection. But persistent high level of antibodies may suggest tissue infection due to amoeba(e.g. liver abscess).You can go for stool microscopy a few weeks after completion of treatment which should be negative after successful treatment.You should be aware about the possible complications of amoebiasis and their symptoms. You should also know how to prevent repeated infection to your child which can very well happen if you don't take care.Hope this will be helpful.Do ask if any further question is there.http://www.HealthcareMagic.com/doctors/dr-nilesh-fichadiya/69389Take care.
Many places use a hydro reservoir scheme , such as the " Snowy Hydro Electric Scheme " in Australia . The system basically uses a series of ponds and lakes . when demand is low , they use the excess energy to pump water into the top reservoir , when demand rises , they let the water run through a turbine to increase energy output .
The simplest reason is that plants do not have fat cells . Some plants like avocados do contain fat , but they store their day - to - day energy as starch . When they have lots of starch , they ramp up growth and reproductive efforts . When they are running low on starch , they throttle down their growth and reproductive efforts .
Legislation takes time . Inflation is fluctuating pretty constantly and somewhat rapidly . Lets say inflation increases . If you want to increase minimum wage to match that , you need to lobby for that to happen , then form committees , write a bill , vote the bill up to the floor , vote on the bill in congress , get the president to sign the bill , and figure out a way to enforce the bill . There 's about 100 more steps than that , but you get the picture of how time consuming that process can be . All that takes time , and by the time it 's over , inflation has probably increased again . Minimum wage * does * increase . It just happens less often because of how long it takes to do all the steps . By the time it 's over , people are probably already wondering why it 's not being increased to match this new wave of inflation that 's happened in the meantime .
Yeah . Basically , the disc an had a chip in it . The music came off of the CD and loaded up the chip . You then listened off of the chip , not directly off of the CD . If your CD skipped , the chip would cut the skip out . Before these chip became prevalent , portable CD players were almost impossible to listen to if you wanted to move around .
I am sorry you are being screamed at . But " Fixed Income " implies that all of their income sources , such as social security or pensions , are set and will only slightly rise based upon , basically , inflation rates . Where as non - fixed income , like yours , implies that you can improve it by getting raises , shifting jobs , adding over time , whatever . It 's not a judgement about the effort you put in , just a way of categorizing and describing income .
it 's a term that originated in early 20th - century architectural criticism . sees human history / culture / values as a series of ' narratives ' usually in place to maintain some ' hegemony ' or status quo . Basically innate to it is an extreme relativism , coming after ' modernism ' which was the culmination of the Enlightenment , which a postmodernist would characterise as a misguided movement based on the notion that there was such thing as ' truth ' and progress . jargon includes ' narrative ' , ' hegemony ' , ' deconstruction ' , etc . I find * postmodernity * as a subject highly fascinating and postmodern art and architecture interesting , I find postmodernism as a philosophy to be pretty much bankrupt . I read a paper recently enough that said it pretty much relies on very mundane truths from which can be extrapolated exciting fictions ( ie . because something is a construct , it could have been constructed differently - > woo ! nothing means anything ! 2 + 2 = 5 ! ) . Foucalt equated truth with power , which sounds exciting and transgressive , but not everyone will notice that his definition of truth is * completely mundane * . There have been postmodernist academics who literally claimed the laws of physics are cultural conventions , they can only be rank and small - minded people .
some people have their own interests . Every time a plane flies over my head , I have to look , because I love airplanes . I could offer a theory as to why people are fascinated by trains , including myself into this group . Trains / train engines / train cars are a very orderly , detailed , mechanical , complex and interesting thing to observe for a detail oriented type person . When I grew up , I had a borderline ( if not full ) obsession with Thomas the tank engine and the little wood toy trains with the wood tracks . It was mechanical , it allowed me to use my creativity to build something that was interesting to play with and I got to play with these neat cars that I could arrange in any way i wanted . I like things to be neat , clean , in order and trains are always like that . I am also fascinated with systems such as railway systems , or aviation systems such as how they control airplanes in the sky . There is another theory that suggest that people with a form of autism know as Asperger 's Syndrome absolutely adore neat , orderly things , trains at the center of the picture . These are just my theories on this and by the way , read a little bit into the history of railroads . In the U.S , they were what allowed
It 's a virus , and typically with viruses , you only get it once . Then your body has made antibodies for it so it can fight off the virus if you 're exposed again . However , your body does n't completely cure you of the virus . The virus stays dormant in your nerve tissues . Then , years later , it can resurface , but instead of taking the form of chicken pox again , it is shingles , which are itchy , painful sores that inflame your nerve pathways . It 's very unpleasant . It was kind of accepted as just happening because it 's not usually that dangerous as long as you get it as a child . When adults get it , it can be a lot more dangerous and there are deaths every year from it . Shingles can also be quite a plague on people . So they have developed a vaccine for chickenpox and a vaccine for shingles . Neither vaccine lasts that long so you have to get it several times .
A mirror does n't reflect 100 % of the light that hits it . Some of it is absorbed as well , and becomes heat . If you set up opposing mirrors and step between them , you 'll see that your reflections eventually begin to shift into a greenish blue colour , because the mirror is absorbing ( and thus not reflecting ) the opposite end of the colour spectrum , colouring the image .
A "covered put" of the form of being short, and buying at the strike price if the "put ... is put" (excercise), is off the table simply because you can't do shorts in the retirement account. Even if you feel you "win" the argument that you're hedged by being short, any broker can say, "we simply forbid shorts" and that's that. A "covered put" of the form of posting the cash, and spending it to buy at the strike price if the "put ... is put" (excercise), might be forbidden by brokerages because, frankly, how do you account for the "dedicated" cash? Is it locked down like margin is, or escrow, or what? I don't know offhand how I would address that in my very own firm. Thus, any broker could say, "we forbid it" and that's that. The other answers are very interesting in conjunction with this. JoeTaxpayer says, very paraphrased, 'just cuz it's legal doesn't mean we have to offer it.' Jaydles says (again, completely paraphrasing), 'complex stuff for a safe little retirement savings account;' 'difficult to administer' (as I said, how do you account for it); and 'tradition' So maybe look at Scott, per Thorn's answer, LOL. It appears that you can shop around on this issue.
Depends on the toilet . Nearly all flush toilets have piping that goes like a un shape , with the bowl at the top of the u and the drain out the bottom of the n. The bottom of the u is filled with water , the top of the n and the drain is air . In the ' washdown ' design it is just the force of the water falling down from the tank that flushes . It makes the water level rise in the u , go over the top of the n , and flow away . The water level wo n't change much when you flush . This design is the norm in Europe . In the ' siphon ' design part of the pipe is narrowed and the water rushes in . This makes the water level in the bowl rise rapidly while the water moves into the pipe more slowly and totally fills it . The water level in the pipe goes round the top of the n and this starts a siphon , pulling the water round and out of the bowl . Only once the water in the bowl drops to the bottom of the U can air get in and break the siphon . This design is the norm in North America . And yes , it 's a siphon . It does n't affect the rest of the toilets because the siphoning water flow is only in the pipework
There 's way , way more that goes into running a large scale website than many people realize . Sure , you need good web designers , but you also need someone who can program the site ( designers might just define the look and feel and tell programmers what it should look like and do ) . Then you need enterprise - grade computer equipment and a place to run that equipment at all times . You need to pay for all the software licenses you 'll need . You need to design , build , and deploy the databases that will be the backend part of your website . You need business people to figure out how you 'll make money with the site . You 'll need marketing people to promote it . You 'll need lawyers to cover the legalese , paperwork , protect the company , etc . On top of all the things you need to run a large business , even just the act of running a large - scale site like a social networking site requires all sorts of expensive technology and expertise . You can make a pretty front - end to a website all day long , but if the site does n't perform well , or crashes frequently , no one will use it . This means you need redundant server deployments with load balancing , failover , etc .
I 've worked overnight when the clocks changed . You either work an extra hour or work one hour less depending on which way the clocks are going .. The official changeover I believe is usually around 1 - 2AM so unless that 's when you get off you just end up working less or more . You just have to make sure you do n't get screwed on the pay if you work an extra hour . If they want to pay me for the extra hour I did n't work they are welcome to .
Hard to say . I expect it 'd depend on the carrier . My parents had a rotary phone until more recently ( like in the last 5 years . They still have the phone , it 's built like a tank ) . They only stopped using it because AT & T " upgraded " their system to tone dialing only .
The moon changes our gravity by about 16 millionths of a percent . The pacific ocean is about 40 million feet across . 16 millionths of a percent of 40 million is about 6 feet . This is roughly the magnitude of tides you should expect in an ocean . Your small pond is 500 feet across . 16 millionths of a percent of 500 is 0.0008 feet , or about 25 microns . This is about the thickness of a human hair , and is the magnitude of tides you should expect in a small pond . Your glass is 4 inches across . 16 millionths of a percent of 4 inches is about .01 microns or about 1000 water molecules laid end - to - end . So the moon 's gravity is moving thousands of water molecules around in your glass of water . It 's just hard for you to see it because .01 microns is smaller than the wavelength of light .
The scene in Mr. Robot actually uses a real device^1 and there are a number of known vulnerabilities in USB implementation such as BadUSB^2 . With the USB Rubber Ducky , it is possible to write a script in such a way that it will be able to ' detect ' the OS and execute the corresponding exploit to gain access^3 . There are many limitations though , and many of the known attack vectors are fixed , often it would require access to an unlocked machine . I believe it was possible though the BadUSB vulnerability to edit the code of the USB Controller ( physically located on the motherboard ) , which would basically enable the attacker to do anything to any USB device plugged into it . 1 . [ USB Rubber Ducky ] ( URL_0 ) 2 . [ BadUSB ] ( URL_2 ) 3 . [ HAK5 Tutorial ] ( URL_1 )
Well I can tell you right now 1m^3 of water is most definitely not 1 kg . 1L of water or 1000cm^3 is , though . Also if you asked everyone to pour exactly 1 litre of water and keep it exactly 4C to measure out your kilograms , you 're now in need of two obscenely good measuring devices to ensure you really poured 1L and are at 4C. Compare this to having a prototype which you can more readily reproduce and put on scales for direct comparisons if you want to .
Arrows and Bullets have very different physics that drive their assault upon your body . Arrows , once they enter tend to stay on a very straight trajectory , because the shaft of the arrow keeps it true as it penetrates your skin and goes into your body . The shaft also replaces the flesh it goes through , so it prevents alot of excess bleeding . A Bullet however , is designed to either expand on impact , or to shatter and cause as much intrinsic damage as it can , as well as it bounces around your body in some cases like a rubber ball launched against a wall . Arrows were primarily designed for hunting , and were adapted for warfare . Guns were designed with the intention of winning wars and being as deadly as possible .
I 'm assuming you 're referring to anabolic steroids commonly used for people trying to bulk up on muscle mass . Well , simply put , these drugs mimic the properties of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone . They mimic them so well that the body thinks they these steroids are those two compounds , and the feedback systems that the body uses to regulate testosterone levels starts to go to work . Thinking there 's too much testosterone , the body begins to cut back on production . Prolonged steroid use can cause atrophy of your testosterone - producing tissues ... which you should know are your testicles . That 's why people joke about steroid users having small ballsacks ... because its a side - effect of prolonged steroid use . There 's a slew of other side - effects as well , all relating to the fact that you 're throwing one of your primary hormones out of balance . Things like impotency , acne , male - pattern baldness , erectile dysfunction , liver impairment , etc . In short , a bit of extra muscle mass if just not worth the slew of problems that come with steroid abuse .
I 'm not entirely sure what you mean by " holding us back , " but in terms of your question : Basically , we will always need some form of currency in a capitalistic economy . As long as there is trade , there is a need for a medium of exchange . Cash / currency is that medium for most capitalistic economies . Currency is a more than just a piece of paper , plastic , or metal with fancy designs and representations of one 's nation . It is an incredibly convenient way of bartering . Imagine a world without money . Now imagine , in that world , that you want to barter for a car . You are a chicken " farmer " and you go in to buy this car . The salesman says " i 'll give you this brand new car for 25,000 chickens . Living chickens " Now you have to come up with 25,000 chickens , transport them to the salesman in all the heavy crates on some trucks . Depending on how far away this car salesman is , your transaction just got a lot more costly . Cash greatly reduces the transactions costs . In other words , it 's a whole hell of a lot easier to carry around the cash equivalent for the car than it is for the chicken equivalent . Now , say you only produce chickens , the car salesman only wants apples
Look at the tallest mountain range in the world : " Himalayan mountain range " that separates India and China ( Mt. Everest is there ) On Indian side , the warm air from the ocean releases water as current hits the southern side of Himalyans , releasing water , so Indian side is very lush and fertile . On the Chinese side , there is no water . There is one of the biggest deserts on the opposite side of Himalayan mountains in China ( Gobi and Takalamakan desert ) . Pictures 1 : [ Rain Shadow ] ( URL_0 )
A couple of reasons : * Easy to get charts mixed up . By asking you directly , they know for sure what your symptoms are . * It prevents the loss of communication . What the nurse interprets and what the doctor interprets may be two different things . Getting a first - hand explanation is better than a second - hand one . * The reason the nurse initially asks you questions is to help assess the severity of your symptoms .
Moving a file does n't change its physical location on the hard drive . Your computer has a catalog of where files are stored , their names , and associated information . This catalog is shown to you when you view your file system . Moving a file is as simple as changing the catalog reference . If you are referring to a move that requires creating a new copy of the file and a copy that copies to a different location then this is faster because there are bottlenecks associated with different modes of transfer , such as USB bandwidth limits and controller latency ( or internet bandwidth limits ) .
Controlled demolition after you gut it . Basically : - Strip out all the useful bits that you can sell off or reuse ( cabling , ducting , carpet , light fixtures etc . ) so that it 's just an empty shell . - Place explosive charges on the main structural members , which are shaped and placed so that the force of the explosion is inwards ( so it does n't blow outwards into other buildings or far away ) . - Sequence the explosives so that they go off in controlled order . Basically , you want to blow the bottom out at several points so that the upper levels collapse straight downwards under the weight of gravity ( pancaking ) . - Once the building is down , dispose and salvage of the material , e.g. structural steel ( rebar ) in concrete can be salvaged and sold for scrap recycling . The rest goes in landfill .
Green light has a wavelength that stimulates different cells in our eyes , than red or yellow or orange . Because Red and Amber ( yellow ) are similar to the color of the sun but not as bright , it 's harder for our eyes to notice them . The plastic covers in traffic signals as well as the lightbulbs or LEDs inside must have a certain amount of brightness , clarity , and a very specific color . The civil engineers who design and specify how traffic signals are made are called traffic engineers . One of things they design is exactly how bright the lights in traffic signals and automobile signal lights should be : they write those standards , and then those standards become something like laws which manufacturers must obey . If they deviate , their products will be considered unsafe and the government wo n't let them sell it . ( These same standards also say exactly how big and how far apart headlights and taillights should be . This is why even though all cars have differently sized light covers , they all look kinda similar at a distance at night , when all you can see is their lights . )
There are greater governmental implications . A parallel case that happened in the UK in the 1960s was that of the Profumo affair . The British minister for war happened to be shagging a prostitute that , as luck would have it , was also getting it on with a man later revealed to be a Soviet spy . There 's nothing in the law against adultery as far as I know , and that so - called puritanical attitude does n't really apply considering that adultery happens on a regular basis anywhere in the world for that matter . It 's just that if you 're someone involved in top - secret government business , you have to be careful about who you 're having sex with as there 's a level of intimacy there that often leads to loose lips ... literally and figuratively .
" Democracy " " works " because 1 person = 1 vote . So the majority always wins . While this may suck for the minority , we do a LOT of voting in democracy on a lot of different things , so most of the time , most people will be part of the majority on whatever issues we vote on . Democracy breaks when the 1 vote - 1 person system is circumvented by lobbyists who have special access to politicians that the common person does n't have , and they are able to lavish politicians with special treatment . Consider this , you have an important decision to make . Who 's council will you take , the angry citizen that keeps blowing up your inbox , or the guy that just bought you a steak dinner after 9 holes of golf ? Money and access corrupt the system to the benefit of a few people with a lot of time and money , to the detriment of a lot of people with little time and little money .
Imagine you are 5 years old and you wanted a toy really badly . You begged and begged your mother to buy it for you , but she constantly kept telling you no . Eventually , you give up because you know that all you are going to hear is your mother saying " no " when you ask for the toy . In essence , the concept of rhetoric is basically the use of language to persuade an audience . In this case , the audience is you as a five year old boy . Your mother was able to persuade you to not ask for the toy through the constant repetition of her saying " no , " thus using language as a means to persuade you .
Asphalt 's primary benefits are that it is A. Cheap B. Pliable . The relevance of " A " is self - evident . The reason that " B " is important is that most American roads are subject to a pretty wide range of temperatures ... so a pliable substance like asphalt can expand and contract and maintain it 's form . Harder substances will split and crack under the pressure of those forces , which make roads less safe and comfortable to drive .
Well , the only thing that comes to my mind is genes . Being ticklish was helping first man to act fast against bugs and other harmful creatures . However , it is not needed anymore because of sleeping in safe places . Thus , people will lose this gene in the end . Maybe your wife 's ancestors did but yours did not :P
Windows 7 and 8 both have 32 - bit versions . So your question does not make much sense from that respect . As to why 32 bit software is continued to be pushed , it 's a relatively simple answer . There is no real advantage to pushing 64 bit software in the overwhelming majority of cases , and there are many disadvantages . One big issue you will run into when developing 64 bit software is that a lot of software libraries you use may be incompatible with it . Since rewriting an entire library is n't very time efficient , it is often better to just write the application as a 32 bit application , especially since you very rarely need 64 bit support . Also , why would you purposely eliminate a big chunk of your target audience by restricting to 64 bit ? A lot of systems , especially older ones , are 32 bit , so if you want to reach a broad audience , you have to support that anyway .
Giving climbers a place to rest can certainly be one of the reasons ( and is part of the reason why they are called " landings " ) . They also are required to create most stairs that change directions , which lets builders fit staircases into smaller areas . That said the key reason you see them commonly is to work as something to catch you if you fall down the stairs , so you only fall to the next landing rather than all of the way down . For this reason most building codes limit how long staircases can go before they are required to have a landing .
there are some people out there who will try every thing possible , things that you ca n't even think of . even today , when it comes to games , you see people discover bugs and techniques that you would never have . that 's just a game . when it comes to food , people are highly motivated . i see these posts all the time about food when it 's so obvious . first they 'll feed that new food to an animal and observe the effect that food has on it . then they 'll try it . if it does nt taste good , they 'll use all the cooking techniques they know on it and see how it turns out . that 's all .
I 'm personally all for drug testing , but this is what I 've heard from people who disagree with me : • It would be so expensive to institute that no money would actually be saved in the long run • It would punish the children of drug abusers even further ; as they would go from very poor to extremely poor • Tests can be easily faked • Can not test for alcohol after a few days , which is by far the most abused drug • Makes it even more difficult for abusers to climb out of an already deep hole , making any possible recovery even less likely
This is going to stretch ELI5 to the limits . watabit covered how Greece got so much money in the first place , with one important fact missing -- Greece lied about how much debt it really had . Your neighbor would be much more likely to owe you money if they thought you had very little debt , than if they thought you had a mountain . For a long time people thought it was half of what it really owed . Now the complex part . . . why the rest of Europe cares . Let 's say you 're a big bank . What is your job ? Well , people give you money , you loan out the money , and in return you give people a small cut . So how much is the bank worth ? Well , what we 're not worth is how much actual cash people have deposited with us , because we no longer have that cash . What we 're worth is what the value of all those loans we 've made . So what happens is Greece defaults ? Well , let 's say people have deposited $ 1B in cash with us . Between cash on hand and what we considered to be the value of all our loans , the total value of our bank is $ 1.2B. Part of this includes a loan to Greece , which if they pay off , is worth $
* * 1 ) * * 3 ^ 2 is equal to 3x3 = 9 * * 2 ) * * 3 ^ 1 is equal to 3 ^ 2 / 3 = 3 * * 3 ) * * 3 ^ 0 is equal to 3 ^ 1 / 3 = 1 Change 3 to any value x and it still works .
Salt does a lot of things desirable in the past . First , it 's a preservative . In the past , people did n't have refridgerators so meat would spoil . Salt would prevent spoiling and keep it tasting good . Second , Salt made food taste good . The availability of spices was much more limited than today . There were n't a lot of ways to flavor food so salt would not only preserve your food , but make it taste better .
There are several types of financial advisors. Some are associated with brokerages and insurance companies and the like. Their services are often free. On the other hand, the advice they give you will generally be strongly biased toward their own company's products, and may be biased toward their own profits rather than your gains. (Remember, anything free is being paid for by someone, and if you don't know who it's generally going to be you.) There are some who are good, but I couldn't give you any advice on finding them. Others are not associated with any of the above, and serve entirely as experts who can suggest ways of distributing your money based on your own needs versus resources versus risk-tolerance, without any affiliation to any particular company. Consulting these folks does cost you (or, if it's offered as a benefit, your employer) some money, but their fiduciary responsibility is clearly to you rather than to someone else. They aren't likely to suggest you try anything very sexy, but when it comes to your primary long-term savings "exciting" is usually not a good thing. The folks I spoke to were of the latter type. They looked at my savings and my plans, talked to me about my risk tolerance and my goals, picked a fairly "standard" strategy from their files, ran simulations against it to sanity-check it, and gave me a suggested mix of low-overhead index fund types that takes almost zero effort to maintain (rebalance occasionally between funds),
You can view the code . It 'll usually be in files marked .exe or .dll if it 's a Windows program . This is not source code , though , this is executable machine code . You can look at the raw binary with a hex editor , or you can use a program called a disassembler which will attempt to translate the machine code into assembly code ( but this translation is n't always straightforward , as it can be difficult to determine what is code and what is data , and where instructions begin and end ) . It is n't necessary to have the source to run the program , so many developers do not distribute the source code for their programs at all . If source code is available , it is usually distributed seperately , as not all users will want it .
There are good explanations already , but I want to stress a crucial point : Water and electronics are a fine combination as long as they 're powered off . Some people even clean old gunky arcade game printed circuit boards in the dishwasher . As long as the electronics are very carefully dried right after cleaning and before applying any electricity , it 's all good .
Not all of them do . If you 're killing them with some sort of pesticide or neurotoxin , like Raid , their dying brains will cause spasms in their muscles . Frequently this will flip the roach over onto its back where it will then spasm uncontrollably and helplessly until brain death is reached . Most of the dead roaches you see are probably poisoned , which would explain why you 're finding them that way . Roaches rarely meet their maker in a natural way out in the open ; if they were to die naturally , they would probably be already too weak to leave the burrow . Too weak and slowly dying , the roaches dying of old age will most likely be on their bellies . But you 'd never see them . To recap : roaches have mini seizures when they 're poisoned , flipping them onto their backs . By sampling bias , you probably only see the poisoned ones , and draw the conclusion that dead roaches die on their backs .
Many good answers here, especially that you have to consider that renting may be more expensive than you'd think. Also, keep in mind that rent is money that is completely lost. Even if the property has dropped in value, if you keep paying, you will be able to recuperate part of your mortgage payments when you sell the house. Normally this is about +-30%, but you need to calculate this yourself by dividing the expected sales price of the house by the total mortgage payments you have to make to pack back everything. So I'd say walking away only makes sense if the rents around where you want to live are much lower than (<+-30%) your mortgage payment, and stable. In stead of walking away immediately, perhaps you can refinance your mortgage with a new one? In 2008 the rates were around 5.8%, now they are around 3.6% or so. I don't know how it goes in the USA but in my country, if the rates drop, it is relatively to do this and it can save people who refinance thousands if not more.
Most of the time when you buy a stock , the way it works is you tell your broker that you want to buy X number of shares of a certain security . It 's your broker 's job to find somebody selling that number of shares at the right price . There is a limit to how many shares are available . For instance , according to their last quarterly report , microsoft has about 8,300,000,000 shares outstanding to owners . The percentage of the company that any one person owns is their number of shares divided by that number . There are occassions when you essentially buy shares right from the company . This is called a " Stock issuance " . An example of this is an IPO or initial public offering . Like when facebook " went public " , they had an IPO . Facebook basically goes to a company , called an underwriter , and they sell however many shares facebook and the underwriter agree upon for a target price , and then the underwriter sells these shares to the public . The underwriter makes money by keeping some of the proceeds ( generally around 6 % I believe ) . So , if Facebook sold 1,000,000 shares for $ 100 a piece , the underwriter would get $ 100 Mil , then turn around and give facebook $ 94 M and keep $ 6 M for themselves .
If i m not mistaken , the term blackface comes from the act of minstrelsy , which was a popular music / variety show that white people did in the late 18th century while literally dressed in black face paint . The reason these shows existed was becasue the white people of the time wanted to hear the music of the relativly new slaves that had come over , but they did nt actually want to see black people perform . These shows made fun of blacks and made fun of slavery all while having the unique music of the brand new African / American musical genre that people would eventually call jazz . The double irony comes in when the slaves were freed and the black people wanted to perform but no one still wanted to see them , so they had to dress like the white people who were dressing like the black people .
To clarify a bit : yes , you 're seeing plasma . What 's happening is that when there 's enough buildup of charge to overcome the ( pretty darned high ) insulative properties of air , all of a sudden a huge rush of electrons surges through the cloud of air molecules . It does this so hard it basically rips a bunch of other electrons off of those air molecules . But , like anything , doing that takes energy . Just like it take energy to pull two magnets apart , it takes energy to pull an electron away from the nucleus of its atom . That 's fine , but it leaves the air in an unstable state : there are now a bunch of negatively charged electrons nearby a bunch of positively charged ions . It 's just like if you imagine suspending a bunch of magnets in a cloud in space or something : they would quickly attract one another and slam back together . The free electrons and the ions recombine back into electrically neutral atoms . When they do so , the electrons * give back * the energy they gained when they were pulled off of those atoms to begin with . This energy is emitted as photons of light , which is what you 're seeing .
HI, I understand your concern. For planning pregnancy, you should get basic tests like ovulation study & semen analysis. with general investigations like hormonal assay ( Thyroid/ diabetic profile, hb % )except the ones you have already checked. Thyroid hormone normality is important for conception. Taking Folic acid, B12 & omega three fatty acid supplements 3 months before conception helps. ovulation day can be found by LH surge test. Once you locate it, have unprotected sex a couple of days before & after probable ovulation. Pregnancy confirmed after 8 days delay in period.. followed by consultation of gynecologist for necessary treatment ( specially hormone Progesterone supplement ,considering history of previous abortion ) If there is delay in conception IUI can be tried foe good results. Thanks.
Super - simplified , hopefully still accurate : Imagine strands of DNA like shoelaces that tell your cells how to behave . The ends of these shoelaces have the little plastic caps on them(made out of an enzyme called telomerase ) that prevent them from starting to unravel each time they 're copied(when cells divide ) . Unfortunately , they lose a little bit of telomerase each time they divide , and eventually have lost so much that they start to lose the DNA strands themselves . Your cells forget more and more of how they 're supposed to function - forget things like how to make elastic non - wrinkled skin , or sharp vision , or strong bones , etc . Eventually , they forget so much that your body ca n't function at all and you die . Recent experiments with adding more telomerase to rats rejuvenated them and increased their lifespan by I think 150 % ( ! ! ! ! ) . They 're currently looking into the implications it could have on biological immortality in humans , but there are a lot of cancer - related complications at the moment . This is more an explanation of how senescence(deteriorating with age ) works than death itself , but there you go . We have no inherent limit . Aging is an ailment like any other , and if we can cure it , we might live forever .
There are some other aspects i m not seeing mentioned yet . I m on mobile and would n't know where to begin looking for a source but I 've read several times how someone , somewhere wrote a blog / article ridiculing the state of modern animation . Among the shows that were named was the new MLP and that did n't sit well with people . Cases were made that it was actually quite an endearing , thoughtful show for its audience so people sorta rallied to its defense which just gave it even more popularity . For the adult male audience specifically , there was a bit of tongue in cheek facetiousness ( is that a word ? ) going on . Some people were pretending to like it more than they did just to irk the show 's irrational haters . This is where the " mods are asleep . Post ponies " bit came from ( look that up if you do nt know what I mean . What really accelerated the brony community though came from the virtues the show promotes leaking into the mix when these guys on the internet began drawing , animating , and writing their own pony - related art . There are a lot of creative people that spend above average amounts of time on the internet because of its ability to share content . The brony community was first developed almost exclusively with these kinds of people ,
No . First , 1 ly is around 10 ^ 15 meters , so depending on thickness and material , your stick will have the mass of a large asteroid / small moon . To move it , you 'd have to apply an appropriately large force to one end of it , and that will pretty much crack / crumple that end . Otherwise you 'll create a compression wave that will propagate along the stick at a ( sublight ) speed that depends on the material . Sort of like an earthquake through a solid material .
Back in college , I took a course on World History Up To AD 1600 , and this was actually covered . It goes back to the Norman Conquest of 1066 . Long story short , England ended up with a French ruling class and an Anglo - Saxon peasantry . As you 've guessed , they did n't share a common language , so words began to blend together . So how did that end up with cows being beef ? Although peasants did have access to meat , it was a rare delicacy . The ruling class , on the other hand , made it part of their every - day meal . But you can be sure that it was n't the ruling class that raised the animals ... the peasants did that . So in the end , English took the word for the animal from the Anglo - Saxon peasants that raised them , but then took the word for the resulting food from the French ruling class that ate them Cow - from Anglo - saxon cou Beef - from French bouef ( " steak " is Old Norse in origin ) Chicken - from Anglo - saxon cicen ( it 's a minor exception that we sometimes use " chicken " for the food too these days ) Poultry - from French poulet Pig - from Anglo - saxon picbred Pork - from French porc ( interestingly , " ham " has Anglo
First mr five year old , are you familiar with the arab spring ? if not , tell me and i can go into the " spark " if you will of the conflict . Basically what is happening though is this : The citizens of syria did n't have a lot of rights , so everyday for a while after they went to their mosques on friday , went to the streets and protested . the government did nt like this so they had police use violence to suppress them . this caused the dissidents to start using violence in return . the government then started waging almost full scale war on the dissidents without paying much attention to civilians in the way . the international community has nt done much because to get the UN to do anything the security council needs to ok it . the issue with this is that Russia ( and China to a degree as well ) are selling the Syrian government arms and so do nt want the conflict to end . recently the UN implemented a cease fire however , unfortunately it is nt being respected .
Something called the Gate Theory of pain . Someone will be able to explain better than myself but basically , there are different nerve fibres which carry different types of information . By pressing your toe you are overloading the fibres which carry signals other than pain , in a roundabout way this decreases the firing of neurones responsible for carrying sensations of pain , meaning their signals are less intense and so you feel less pain .
When you smoke your first cigarette , it gives you a buzz that feels good . So the next time someone offers , you smoke another one because the buzz was nice . You keep doing this occasionally , because that buzz is like a little hill on your graph of How You 're Feeling . You decide to buy your own pack because you want to feel the buzz more often . Eventually you stop getting a buzz . Instead , your How You 're Feeling graph gets dips in it , and you smoke a cigarette to bring yourself out of the dips . What once made you feel good for a few minutes now makes you feel bad when you do n't have one , because of the physical addiction .
The * New York Times * magazine section had an interesting article about this , I think it was about a year ago . They surveyed Chicagoans at random , over a thousand of them , to get their answer to the following question : " If you were the victim of a crime , and you called the police , would they ( a ) make things better , ( b ) make no difference , or ( c ) make things worse ? " They then drew up a map of which neighborhoods in Chicago gave answer ( c ) more than 50 % of the time . It mapped almost entirely onto the map of Chicago homicides . And in the accompanying article , a * Times * reporter rode along with a Chicago homicide detective all weekend , driving from shooting site to shooting site . At every site , there were people gathered already . None of whom would admit to having seen anything , none of whom would voluntarily speak with the cops . Except for one old woman , at one shooting site , who walked right up to the cops and told them that she knew who did it , but no way was she going to tell them . Sounds crazy to you ? It was n't long after that that ProPublica broke the story of a Chicago cop who was railroaded by the department for reporting some of her fellow
Have a look at URL_0 . This lady speaks with excitement about the millions of images used and how they do not go outside with a camera . So , the more you upload , the more valuable you are . In terms of a research focused IT company buying 2 extra HDD / SSD for you , for $ 200 is totally worth it because hiring a photograph to capture relevant pictures / sounds / videos for them ends up being more expensive in 1 years time .
Decision theory (or the theory of choice; not to be confused with choice theory) is a branch of applied probability theory concerned with the theory of making decisions based on assigning probabilities to various factors and assigning numerical consequences to the outcome. There are three branches of decision theory: Decision theory is closely related to the field of game theory and is an interdisciplinary topic, studied by economists, mathematicians, data scientists, psychologists, biologists, political and other social scientists, philosophers and computer scientists. Empirical applications of this theory are usually done with the help of statistical and econometric methods.
ELI5 Version : Your body is always making more heat , and it wants to stay at 37^o C. So you are always getting hotter but you cool off in the air . If it is too hot out , you ca n't keep your temperature even . That extra warmth has to go somewhere , it ca n't just vanish ! ... More adult version : For the same reason that your car will overheat without coolant . Running generates heat , that heat has to be vented . No vent , and the heat builds up until something breaks .
Mouthpieces are a lot like shoes . Every person has a size they fit in or a style they prefer . They also have different styles for different activities . If you are going to run a race you want some athletic kicks rather than ballroom dress shoes . Mouthpieces are the same way . If I am playing lead in a jazz band I am going to want to use a mouthpiece that gives me that piercing brassy sound . On the other end if I am playing for a symphony orchestra I will want a deep mellow tone to blend into the strings and support them . If you look at the rim around a mouthpiece they will say something like Bach 3c or Schilke 14a4a . This is like saying you wear a Nike size 12 . Slight changes in these dimensions can have huge effects on how the horn will sound as well as how easy / hard it is to play in upper or lower registers . On a more practical point they also make plastic mouthpieces . They are typically used when playing outside in very cold weather such as football games or parades . They sound no where near as good as a regular mouthpiece but putting a frozen metal plate to your lips is so not worth perfection . Hope that helps clear things up a bit . Source : Have played Trumpet for the last 20 years of my life .
The question is not about flammability or density , it 's about energy density . Or , LY5 , about how much energy you can pack into a certain amount of space . Energy density is important because if you have something more energetically dense , you can carry less of it . Simply making something denser ( more mass per unit volume ) does n't necessarily increase the amount of energy you can get out of it . Back to the car : gasoline is very energetically dense ( double that of ethanol ( grain alcohol ; the stuff in beer , wine , and vodka ) , per unit mass ; i.e. I only have to carry one kilo of gasoline to have the same amount of energy as two kilos of ethanol ) so we can carry less of it and still get places . Also remember that you are n't just burning stuff in the engine ; you 're actually creating lots of small explosions in the engine to drive the pistons so you need something that goes * * boom * * and not just * whoosh * .
This comes down to your circadian rhythm , usually . From a young age , most of us get into the habit of sleeping at night and staying awake during the day , or maybe having a short nap in the afternoon . This is usually linked to Zeitgebers ( German for ' time - givers ' ) which are basically external cues . The most common of these are external light . Essentially , we train ourselves into having a proper sleep at night and only a nap during the day . It 's surprisingly easy and simultaneously difficult to fuck up your circadian rhythm . Think about how often you stay up all night to watch a show or play a game or read a book or dance while wasted . Basically anything that throws you off your rhythm can fuck up your cycle but this is usually short term , and your body is pretty good at getting itself back on track if you 're not fighting it , thanks to hormones . Hormones help maintain your circadian rhythm . Melatonin and cortisol both affect your sleep cycle . Example : Melatonin , the ' sleepy ' hormone , is usually produced at night , and causes drowsiness and drops your body temperature , both of which will obviously make you want to sleep more . Melatonin usually starts getting produced between 8 pm and 9 pm , spiking around 3 am and 4 am , finishing
Hi, dearI have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You may have benign verruca plantaris or some other lesion. You should go for biopsy of that wart. If it is benign then no need to worry. If it shows malignant change then you need to remove it. Consult your doctor and take treatment accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using health care magic. Wish you a very good health.
Overpopulation , depletion of resources , move to another area , populate , over populate until the resources run dry . This cycle can only be repeated so many times until there are no more places to spread out too . Humans just have n't reached this point you . When overpopulation occurs , food runs out and stavation occurs , animals will have fewer offspring as a natural balance . While the over population occurs , natural predators will now have an abundance of food , allowing for more offspring to survive . The predator will essentially cull down its food supply until balance is restored . A certain place can only sustain so much of each species before overpopulation occurs and nature balances itself out . Human have no real natural predator anymore , technology has dealt with this issue . Science and medicine has been a major player in humanity avoiding over population , we have found ways to transform terrain , extract resources and develop regions where are biologically designed not to survive in . At some point , humanity will overpopulate the planet and our only counter will be if we are able to have technology develop faster . Genetically Modified Foods are an example , crops that grow faster , use less natural resources and have improved health benefits .
> * * Modern warships * * are generally divided into seven main categories , which are : aircraft carriers , cruisers , destroyers , frigates , corvettes , submarines and amphibious assault ships . Battleships encompass an eighth category , but are not in current service with any navy in the world . [ link ] ( URL_14 ) ---- > An * * aircraft carrier * * is a warship with a full - length flight deck and facilities for carrying , arming , deploying , and recovering aircraft , that serves as a seagoing airbase.[1 ] Typically , it is the capital ship of a fleet , as it allows a naval force to project air power worldwide without depending on local bases for staging aircraft operations [ link ] ( URL_27 ) [ Principe - de - Asturias , Wasp , Forrestal , Invincible ] ( URL_25 ) [ From foreground to background : HMS Illustrious , USS Harry S. Truman , and USS Dwight D. Eisenhower ] ( URL_1 ) --- > In the later 20th century , the obsolescence of the battleship left the * * cruiser * * as the largest and most powerful surface combatant . The role of the cruiser varied according to ship and navy , often including air defense , commerce raiding and shore bombardment . [ link ] ( URL_12 ) [ USS Port Royal ] ( URL_13 ) [ Missile cruiser Varyag ] ( URL_7 ) ----
Regarding Harmony : Exactly like NotAnotherDecoy said , specific notes complement each other , when played together they have a soothing effect on the ear because of the specific difference between their pitch and frequency , said effect is called harmony . Eg . In any given scale , pick any note on that scale , the 3rd and 5th note away from on that scale it is in harmony with it . This is called 3rd and 5th minor harmonic , they are all over metal music . Iron Maiden is an excellent example of usage of harmony , almost the entire song is harmonized .
From the Massachusetts Department of Revenue: 1st - Massachusetts Source Income That is Excluded Massachusetts gross income excludes certain items of income derived from sources within Massachusetts: non-business related interest, dividends and gains from the sale or exchange of intangibles, and qualified pension income. 2nd - Massachusetts Source Income That is Included: Massachusetts gross income includes items of income derived from sources within Massachusetts. This includes income: 3rd - Trade or business, Including Employment Carried on in Massachusetts: A nonresident has a trade or business, including any employment carried on in Massachusetts if: A nonresident generally is not engaged in a trade or business, including any employment carried on in Massachusetts if the nonresident's presence for business in Massachusetts is casual, isolated and inconsequential. A nonresident's presence for business in Massachusetts will ordinarily be considered casual, isolated and inconsequential if it meets the requirements of the Ancillary Activity Test (AAT) and Examples. When nonresidents earn or derive income from sources both within Massachusetts and elsewhere, and no exact determination can be made of the amount of Massachusetts source income, an apportionment of income must be made to determine that amount considered Massachusetts gross income. 4th - Apportionment of Income: Apportionment Methods: The three most common apportionment methods used to determine Massachusetts source income are as follows: Gross income is multiplied by a: So if you go to Massachusetts to work, you have to pay the tax. If you collect a share of the profit or revenue from Massachusetts, you have
It 's not a pill , but there 's a [ new male contraceptive ] ( URL_0 ) that is almost totally side - effect free , nearly 100 % effective , and reversible . It is getting close to clinical trials in the US , but has been studied for around 10 years in India . I ca n't wait .
Lifelong Londoner here . I 'll try to explain . First , you have one outright mistake in your question , and a couple of points of confusion . The outright mistake is this : " Camden is a borough in the city of Westminster " . No , it is n't . So let 's try to clarify . " Greater London " is a geographic and political entity . It 's approximately 600 square miles in size and has a population of around 8.5 million people . Certain functions , such as transport and many development and economic issues , are considered important enough that there is an elected mayor for the whole of Greater London ( known , unsurprisingly , as the Mayor of London , but we 'll come back to this ) , and an elected body , the Greater London Assembly , which between them set policies . The Mayor and GLA also provide the budget for the police and fire service in London , and have a say in their running . To provide more local representation and deal with less London - wide issues , Greater London is then subdivided into 33 boroughs . One of these boroughs is the London Borough of Camden , another is the London Borough of the City of Westminster ( we 'll come to the reason for it having " city " in its name later ) . But Camden and Westminster are completely separate entities
My time to shine ! I work for my state 's department of transportation and I work with eminent domain law on a daily basis . These descriptions are correct . After road project is reviewed for environmental and engineering concerns title searches are done to determine the owner of an impacted property , i.e. someone who lives next to a road we are repairing and will have their property impacted by our work . In some cases we will need to park some equipment in someone 's yard in which case we " rent " a small part of their property to do this . In some cases like widening a road or a newer , larger bridge we have to purchase a small part of property from a property owner in order to use it forever . Now in the days of the king the state could just widen the road on to your property no questions asked . In the modern day U.S. however we have to compensate you fair market value to obtain your property . An appraisal is done and I approach the property owner with an offer based on this amount . We compensate the owner up to $ 5,000 for legal or engineering fees and the property owner can appeal the amount we offer . We also can condemn the piece of property in question if the property owner is non - responsive to our offer . The appraised value of the property
It allows teachers to have different grading scales . So I might make a really hard class but give people with an 85 an A. Or I may have a class that you need at least a 75 to pass either because the information from class is required to move on or because I require more from my students .
There is nothing illegal about a vehicle being in one person's name and someone else using it. An illegal straw purchase usually applies to something where, for example, the purchaser is trying to avoid a background check (as with firearms) or is trying to hide assets, so they use someone else to make the purchase on their behalf to shield real ownership. As for insurance, there's no requirement for you to own a vehicle in order to buy insurance so that you can drive someone else's vehicle. In other words, you can buy liability coverage that applies to any vehicle you're operating. The long and short of it here is that you're not doing anything illegal or otherwise improper,but I give you credit for having the good morals for wanting to make sure you're doing the right thing.
If you classify waves according to * what * is oscillating , then I can think of three basic categories : waves of fluctuating electromagnetic field ( light ) , waves of fluctuating spacetime ( gravitational waves ) , and waves of moving matter ( everything else ) . * But equally important is the " restoring force " which causes the oscillation to occur by pulling the whatever - it - is back towards equilibrium . There are probably dozens of ways this force can be configured , leading to dozens of kinds of waves . . * I 'm not including quantum mechanical probability waves in this , because the Schrödinger equation is n't exactly a wave equation , but I 'd be interested in knowing if I missed any categories .
Humans are , when you get right down to it , chemically - based creatures . Our unique body chemistry makes us who we are . Medicines are also chemicals . So , let 's say we each take a medicine called Metformin . Metformin is Metformin : it contains the same chemicals no matter what pharmacy you get it from ; it does n't change . The difference is in the two people taking it . No two people have the exact same identical chemical make up . So basically you are adding this medicine / chemical to two different pools of unknown chemicals . You may take it and be perfectly fine . I may take it and it causes me to have terrible chest pains ( full disclosure : this is a true story ) . My chemical makeup is simply not the same as yours ; something that makes me who I am is simply incompatible with this chemical .
Basically , Israel and the US are arguing that recognition by the UN is supposed to be the Palestinian reward for making peace with Israel . Quite a few other countries are arguing that the only realistic way of having succesful peace negotiations is when there 's a stable Palestinian state that has enough control over its own country to stop their people from firing rockets . Metaphor time : your mom wants you to drink your milk , while you want a cookie . She 's saying you can only have the cookie , once you 've drunk your milk , because she 's afraid that if you get the cookie , you 'll eat it and still not drink your milk . You 're saying that you 'd drink the milk , if only you had a cookie to go with it .
Algebra focuses on solving an equation using static ( unchanging ) values where calculus uses dynamic ( changing ) values based on a rate of change . Calculus uses algebra to solve complex problems . Example : how much fuel does a rocket need to burn for a payload of X ( unit of mass ) to escape Earth 's gravity ? Changing variables include distance from the center of the earth to wherever the rocket is , ( as gravity pulls less the farther you get away ) , and a changing total mass of the rocket as it burns fuel . Some rocket fuel is on board to lift other rocket fuel , to lift other rocket fuel , to lift the payload !
Basically , the federal government spends the money congress says it should spend ; we have a lot of that money in yearly budgets ( congress passes appropriations bills , that basically say spend $ x for y , z ... between Oct/1 and Sept 30 ) ; all those appropriations bills expire on Oct 1 , so after that , the federal government should not spend ' any ' money . But , several programs are on autopilot ( Social Security , Medicare ... ) so wo n't be affected , and the president can authorize ' essential ' personnel to still work ( not sure how they get paid :) , like active duty military , FBI , ... After Oct 1st , many nice - to - have government services , like national parks , wo n't work .
Worth mentioning that in a higher level ensemble , where the conductor is doing more than just keeping time , the conductor 's hands are basically a visual representation of what they want the musician 's air ( or bow ) to be doing . I 'm a wind player , so I ca n't put this into string speak , but on a wind instrument the type of air that is going through the instrument largely affects the music . Faster air helps push a line , and so on , but the reason many conductors have a very flowy pattern is because the air needs to be constant to produce the sound they want . Conductors are not there for show . There might be some that might as well be , but they gave a crucial job . They can be the glue that helps hold the ensemble together .
I had both my big toenails removed after they got badly ingrown . I can tell you that they do have a purpose , namely so you do n't hurt yourself as bad when someone steps on them , you drop something on them , or you stub your toe . That shit hurts . Do n't listen to these people who say they have no purpose anymore .
Humans have around 5 million scent receptors . Dogs have upwards of 100 million or more scent receptors . They can smell * more things * , so what might smell * bad * to us , might smell astoundingly * good * to them . Taken from URL_0 : > When dogs smell something they are not just registering a smell , they get an entire story . They can smell pheromone , which is not only found in the urine and fecal , but on the skin and fur . From this they can tell a lot about another dog or human including if they are male or female , what they ate , where they have been , what they have touched , if they are ready to mate , if they have recently given birth , or had a false pregnancy , and what mood they are in . They have even been known to smell cancer on people , alerting them to it and saving their lives . This means when your dog smells another person , tree that another dog has peed on , pant leg that another dog has rubbed up against , or chair that someone has sat in , they are actually reading a story , not just smelling an interesting scent . While a human will smell something like spaghetti sauce as one smell , a dog smells each individual ingredient . Unlike humans , dogs can move their nostrils
The DVD has a bunch of " dots " . Some reflects the laser in the reader , some do n't . This represents those 1 : s and 0 : s. This is then interpreted by the processor . The video is encoded in a certain way in these binary digits ( bits ) . The video is divided into frames ( usually 24 pictures per second ) , and these are made of dots ( pixels ) . The color values of all these are represented in the bits . Ask if you want more details .
Finally , my time to shine . Dentist here . Dentistry for the most part developed as a skilled trade . The field has resisted attempts to integrate into medicine throughout its history . Initially , dental training was spotty at best and it did n't take much for somebody to claim they were a dentist . For example , Paul Revere advertised his skills as a dentist in addition to his other trade as a silver smith . There were " dentists " in the 18th century that were self proclaimed but branched out into dentistry after receiving a medical education , but that was not the norm . In the US , beginning in the 1840 's , dentists began to lobby the state government ( in Alabama of all places ) to allow dentists to sit on the state medical board and license dentists to practice . This did n't really begin to be enforced with any regularity until the turn of the 20th century . Many dentists that I know do not think that the two professions should merge ( as in everyone goes to medical school and then make dentistry a residency program after getting your MD ) . The claim is that there 's so much specialized knowledge in Dentistry that it would be a waste of time to spend years on rotations through the other hospital wards when you could be studying advanced periodontics or removable or whatever else . My personal opinion
French here . If I remember my history class correctly the french revolution happened like that . Basically , as hippiestyle said it , France was ruled by around 3 % of the population : the nobles and the clergy . The rest of the population were farmers and such . during the XVIII century , the bourgeoisie exploded : former farmers became richer and richer , had other professions ( they trade goods , etc . ) . In the meantime , the noblesse ( nobility ? ) became poorer and poorer for various reasons . ( the land they possessed were splitted between the sons at each generations , giving less and less land each time ) . The nobles kept the power though , while the bourgeoisie could n't . Social mobility just did n't exist back then . With money came the desire to have access to power , since they could n't , it kind of pissed off the bourgeoisie . It was also the " siècle des lumières " . Nobles and Bourgeois alike , began to think about new way of ruling , were against the current monarchy , were for a more enlighten people etc ... So Voltaire and his friends added their grain of salt to the equation . Finally , the king at the time Louis XVI , was going through huge expense while people were basically starving . All this piled up led to the revolution : An angry
I 'll just quote Carl Sagan , from [ The Demon Haunted World ] ( URL_0 ): > " A fire - breathing dragon lives in my garage " > Suppose ( I 'm following a group therapy approach by the psychologist Richard Franklin ) I seriously make such an assertion to you . Surely you 'd want to check it out , see for yourself . There have been innumerable stories of dragons over the centuries , but no real evidence . What an opportunity ! > " Show me , " you say . I lead you to my garage . You look inside and see a ladder , empty paint cans , an old tricycle -- but no dragon . > " Where 's the dragon ? " you ask . > " Oh , she 's right here , " I reply , waving vaguely . " I neglected to mention that she 's an invisible dragon . " > You propose spreading flour on the floor of the garage to capture the dragon 's footprints . > " Good idea , " I say , " but this dragon floats in the air . " > Then you 'll use an infrared sensor to detect the invisible fire . > " Good idea , but the invisible fire is also heatless . " > You 'll spray - paint the dragon and make her visible . > " Good idea , but she 's an
Developing [ this ] ( URL_0 ) for a commercial sized aircraft would be more useful than attempting to get individual passengers out in ' chutes . If the plane is controllable it 's safer if they land , even if that means a crash landing . If the plane is uncontrollable it 'll impact the ground long before many people get out - they ca n't really start getting out until it drops below about 15,000 feet . Nor can anyone really exit safely by any door , either you go into the engines , or you hit a horizontal stabilizer under the tail .
because of the relative size of earth , that 1000 mph ( I did n't check for accuracy - sounds close enough ) is not much angular change . Since it takes the Earth around 24 Hrs to rotate , each hr at the equator is around 1000 Mi / hr , or 16 Mi / min . Focusing on something far away .. the moon is around 240,000 miles - means even over a minute , it is a mighty small change . Observable , probably at that distance .. but even the Sun is millions of miles away . Imagine a triangle with the sun at the apex , each leg is 92 million miles long , and the base is your position over time .. 16 miles is pretty close to zero , when measuring millions of miles otherwise . It illustrates that we barely move at all in comparison to the distance away .
Imagine that you are playing tag in the playground . Johnny and his friends all play tag together , The school has just released a whole new set of equipment for the playground and this included a whole set of shoes ! Now to start with everyone just wears the things that are most fun . But Johnny figures out that the red shoes are actually 2 % faster than any of the other shoes ! Johnny is actually very good at Tag and plays a lot of tag after school as well so uses these shoes all the time . All the other players that were good at tag are now not as good as Johnny because of his shoes . So they all buy the red shoes until over 50 % of people are wearing the red shoes ! Now Billy , who only sometimes plays tag and is n't as good as everyone else , but he does n't mind , because he has fun . But now , most times he gets tagged it is by someone wearing red shoes ! Johnny begins to think that it is nt fair and he should buy some red shoes as well and is upset every time he gets caught . In his mind , the red shoes are totally over powered because he only ever gets caught by people in red shoes , but in reality they are only 2 % better , just everyone has adopted them
Because to connect to the internet you need to hook up to someone already connected to the internet . The ISP makes a deal with the internet backbones , internet exchanges or other large nodes on the internet . These big nodes sell in bulk - like Tbps or something else you 'd never be able to reasonably use as a single home user . The ISP sets up infrastructure so that they get a wire to your house and connect it up to the big node or nodes they use to get onto the internet . They also generally offer DNS service and often email and much more rarely these days but sometimes news servers . Connecting yourself to the internet without an ISP would require you finding a way to wire yourself up to a node already on the internet and all the required infrastructure for that . ( Unless you 're connecting to a neighbour via a long ethernet cord you 're probably going to need a modem and some long coax cable or something , or perhaps an antenna and someone willing to transmit information to you and recieve from you to connect you . )
No , they are different sugars . The ( added ) sugar in chocolate is typically sucrose , the sugar in fruit is fructose . However In practice , they both become glucose in the body , so a comparable amount of sucrose is ' the same ' as that amount of fructose . Remember , you 're not just eating a teaspoon of sugar in either case . Eating fruit also means eating fiber , which tends to mitigate blood glucose spikes in a way that chocolate ( or soda ) wo n't .
This is a copy - paste I wrote in another thread . It 's becoming my standard reply here . > So here 's the thing with Israel . Right now everyone involved is behaving like a child to some extent or another . > Both sides have been wronged by the other , and neither is going to give it up until the other does first . > The problem actually started , like so many problems in the world , with colonialism . Instead of granting Palestine a charter of a free , democratic state , The British Crown ( that is to say , the government of the United Kingdom , acting under the authority of Parliament , blah blah blah british government stuff ) granted it to ( mostly ) the Jews to ensure something like the holocaust did n't happen again . People felt sorry for the Jews , because they realized what happened in Germany was n't all that different than some of the sentiment expressed in their own country . Before WW2 , Jews were n't just hated in Germany , they were hated world wide . Even in the states & amp ; UK there was a distinctly anti - jew sentiment . > So , for a little while everything went okay , but the Arab neighbors of Palestine rightly did n't like that a foreign entity was interfering in what they perceived as regional politics ( it 'd be like
Freemasonry is a world - wide brotherhood that stems from actual stonemasons ' fraternities in the medieval times . It is now basically a big fraternity with lots of traditions and rules ( in their speech , their outfits , their different " grades " ) whose members are mostly influential people in various spheres ( cultural , political , industrial , etc . ) Their goals are pretty much an ideal of unity , morality and brotherhood that supposedly goes beyond political views , nationalities or any kind of separation between men . The reason it 's full of influential people is because someone can only become a freemason if they 're being intronized by someone who 's already a member ( so there 's no " application sheet " ) . And if we assume that higher - ups only minge with other higher - ups , in the end most freemasons belong to that category . However , freemasons are not particularly influential * as freemasons * : they are influential people who happen to be freemasons . Although it could be argued that these people might meet and take decisions during lodge meetings , it does n't confer freemasonry in itself any actual power .
I watched a show about the crack problem in a city . The guy interviewing people was told to drive to a certain spot where he then follows a different car . Then he got in a car with someone , turned the camera off , and put on a blindfold so he would n't know where the crack house was . When he got there , he was searched by a couple guys and then he could turn the camera on . A lot of preparation is put into things like that .
Well , it depends on the dog . Grossly , probably pretty similar . If the coat color was solid , then it would probably have the same coat color . But if it was a pattern , the exact pattern would be different . Also , point mutations in individual follicles would create those odd mis - colored hairs in a completely different patterns in either case . If you have a breed that can have either floppy or straight ears , what you end up having could be of a different type in your clone than the parent . This is because ear shape is n't directly controlled by gene(s ) , rather in the level of hormone expression during development Environmental factors during development can alter hormone levels and you could end up with entirely different ears . Behavior , temperament , personality - total crap shoot . All tings being equal they may come out very similar , but even identical twins can have radically different personalities from day 1 , to say nothing about how experiences may change such traits as the animal experiences life .
You do n't have a reason to know the alphabet backwards . You have a reason to know numbers forward and backward , from counting and math over the years . Children do n't intrinsically know it . Its something you had to learn , now you know it , and now it seems second nature . --- How I learned the alphabet backward a few years ago . * Everyone knows the end and beginning of the alphabet . ZYX ends and CBA at the start . Its the easy part . * Start with ZYX then name Two states that suck ; West Virginia and Utah Suck . WV , UT , S. * The offensive - ish part : our queue to pee on Martin Luther King : R - Q - P - O - N - MLK . * Dance a JIHG as you get near the end . You 're probably FED up with it . Then close with CBA . Put it together : * ZYX , West Virginia , UTah Suck , ouR Queue Pee ON MLK , Dance a JIHG , FED up , CBA * ZYX WV - UT - S RQ - P - ON - MLK JIHG FED CBA * ZYXWVUTS RQPONMLK JIHGFEDCBA Once you have learned it , then its really very easy to repeat . Takes maybe 5 minutes to get it into your head and then the letters are stuck there . If you used
Poor city planning in most cases . If 15 people are turning left and 15 people are turning right at an intersection of a two lane road , forward - moving traffic will be backed up until one of those lanes clears . When they do , people from the othe lane still backed up will try to merge over creating more backup . If this road is really that busy , it should have one or two center lanes . Traffic flow is easily one of the highest priorities of city planning .
You just have to go back to the 90 's to find your answer . Back in the BBS days , a lot of places only had a certain number of phone lines that allowed people to connect to the BBS . These lines would often disconnect users after 60 minutes so that no one could hog the lines . When ISPs started cropping up , they still used phone lines and often instituted the same policy of disconnecting users after a certain time limit . The first time I saw an ad for cable internet , it used the term " unlimited " to refer to the amount of consecutive time you were allowed to use their service . I belive the current use of the term stems from the " we 've always done it this way " mentality of ISP advertisers .
Hello, I hope you are well, it is important to know the precise diagnosis because the treatment and care will vary depending on the cause. If it is biliary pathology dietary care should include avoiding fatty foods, dairy products, egg, called cholecystokinetic foods. If it is a peptic ulcer disease dietary care should include avoiding acidic, spicy, irritant foods, alcohol and even smoking.
It 's actually pretty simple . When we get surprised or something happens suddenly , our brains send blood and endorphins through our body . Popping something provides us with a " controlled " surprise where we know we are going to be surprised and we also know that we wo nt be harmed . So we get the benefits of being surprised without the risk .
They do n't . Computer actually have only one style of native code . everything else needs to be translated into that . Usually this is done with a compiler a program that turns human readable code into machine code . Sometimes for code in programming languages that are used for scripting , instead of compiling the code once and running the resulting binary executable again and again the code gets translated " on the fly " every time it is run by an interpreter program . The computer " knows " which interpreter or compiler to use for which sort of code the same way that it knows to use for example Word to open a word - file or paint to open an image file . Mostly a combination of the extension ( and sometimes the mime format ) of the source file and the user manually selecting the file from the right program .
Modem : ( modulates and de - modulates ) or in ELI5 analogy it translates computer speak into electricity language which travels across the wire ( or light language in the case of fiber optic ) . Router : This is the guy who separates all the simultaneous conversations and makes sure that the two computers speaking can hear each other . Another way to think of it is that this is the mail - man who ensures that the letters get where they are going .
As a biologist , no , lobsters do not live forever . If you do n't believe me get a fish tank and raise a lobster there and see how long it lives . The article says : > which means they would essentially live forever if it were n't for being caught and eaten , or dying from injury or disease . And that is the case with any living organism , the more you get old the more you become prone to diseases and that 's why everybody dies . This article is full of scientific inaccuracy and oversimplification . If it was only one gene responsible for this we would have easily been able to inject it in every living organism in the world . Some other reply here mentioned this : > The genes between humans and lobsters are substantially different . You ca n't just take bits from one and expect the same results in the other . The first part of this is wrong , the second part is right . Simply put , a " gene " is just a code the tells the cell how to manufacture a certain protein . Nothing else . So we actually have been able to transfer genes between Humans , mice , cows , flies , plants , bacteria and even algae . For example : By inserting a gene for a florescent protein called GFP ( Green Florescent Protein ) , obtained from sea algae
The core Half - Life games are a must . Do n't play Black Mesa : Source as a substitute for Half - Life 1 . It 's a fan remake with some content and puzzles changed . It 's a cool game , but make sure you play the original Half - Life first . Ultimately , however , you do n't have to play Black Mesa : Source at all to enjoy the series . If you do n't want to deal with the old graphics , which have actually aged very well , you can play Half - Life : Source . Valve did a pretty much 1:1 port of the game in the Source engine . Valved teamed with Gearbox to make Blue Shift . It retells the events of Half - Life 1 from the perspective of Barney Calhoun , a security guard in Black Mesa . You 're not missing out on anything important by not playing it , but there 's not really a reason not to . Opposing Force was also made by Gearbox and Valve . It retells the events of Half - Life 1 but from the perspective of Adrian Shephard , a U.S. Marine Corporal sent to silence all witnesses and quell the alien threat . Again , not necessary to enjoy the series , but no reason not to play . After that , it 's pretty straightforward . Play Half - Life 2 , Episode 1 ,
A lot of people are " one - uppers " If you say you did n't sleep last night because of a toothache , they tell you they have slept in 4 days because of x , y , and z. If your significant other cheated on you they had someone who cheated on them , beat them , and stole all of their money . So when someone says they 've been diagnosed as depressed , the one - upper comes out and say they 're bipolar , with self harming tendencies , and ADHD . Then the internet came along and attention seeking one - uppers were able to congregate and one up each other ad nauseum . Oh my god , do n't you feel so bad for them ? No , not yet ? ? How about when I add 3 more diagnoses ? And a bunch of black and white photos . And a dumb " inspirational " quote that I found on pinterest . Pay attention to meeeeee
In short , your mouse and monitor do n't communicate directly with each other ... The graphics chip in your computer sends data to your monitor to tell it what to display . The monitor does n't really process any of this , it just uses the data to decide what colour each pixel should be . Your mouse does the opposite . When you move it or click the buttons , it generates signals which are sent to your computer . The mouse itself does n't know where it is on the screen , or whether it is clicking an icon , or how far or fast it is moving - it just knows " I 'm moving left " , or " My left button was clicked " . It 's the computer 's job - primarily the Operating System - to decide what to do with the mouse information . It will use the data to decide where the mouse is on the screen , and will incorporate that data into what is being sent to the monitor . So really , the monitor and the mouse have very little to do with each other . One takes input and gives it to the computer , the other takes output from the computer and displays it to the user .
I live in an apartment that has only the front door , which leads out into the communal hallway of our apartment building , and two windows upstairs . The windows are sealed up tight , and it seems odd that spiders would make the trek through the hallway and into our apartment when there are other apartments before ours . I 've never understood how we got them , either ... the only thing I can think is they find their way in through the ventilation system .
Ah , this technology is called chroma - keying . The image is n't projected at all . A person is filmed in front of a big green sheet ( or blue ) and when they look at it in person , all they see is green ( or blue ) . Then , in editing , an image is added in — basically the computer tells the video " insert this image / video footage anywhere where it 's this shade of green . " The reason it 's green or often blue is because skin wo n't get accidentally picked up . Skin hues , regardless of race , are generally red - based ( pinkish , so to speak ) but not very green or blue based , so you run little risk of the computer mistaking your skin for the background . [ source 1 ] ( URL_0 ) , [ source 2 ] ( URL_1 )
The US borrows money by selling bonds ... there are many kinds of bonds , but basically if you buy a bond , you are giving the US money now , and they will give you more back later . The US sells bonds on a open market ... any person , company or country can buy them . So the US is n't choosing to borrow money from China , they are selling bonds , and China just happens to be buying a lot of them .
A sonic boom occurs because the speed of sound is the speed at which information propagates in a fluid . But that did n't explain it to you very well , did it ? How does a fluid know it 's flowing around something ? Physically , how does the flow adjust on the upstream side if you drop a rock in a stream , for example ? Well , fluid particles build up at the surface of the obstacle ( because they ran into something ! ) , which increases the pressure near the surface of the obstacle . This elevated pressure decreases in a smooth way to the free stream pressure as you move further away from the obstacle . Far enough upstream , the flow is undisturbed by the rock downstream . And all of this stuff happens pretty quickly once you put the rock in the stream , right ? It 's not like the flow 1 cm upstream of the rock is going to be behave like there 's no rock there , even right after you put the rock in . ( Actually , in the specific case of standing waves caused by rocks in shallow water , the speed at which the information about the presence of the rock travels upstream is actually pretty darn slow , but let 's not let physics get in the way of a good metaphor ! ) Now imagine that the rock is an airplane and the
Well , you can look at the EU for a smaller scale example of that . Basically you end up with strong economies ( like Germany ) subsidizing weak economies ( like Greece ) via the shared currency . EDIT : thinking about this again , I 'm not sure how it would work with a single world currency . Currently , all countries in the EU gain the same benefit from a relatively weak or strong euro ( e.g. weak euro = competitive exports & economic growth , strong euro = cheap imports , increased purchasing power , etc . ) , but with a single currency there would be no such thing as weak or strong because there is no point of comparison . It would effectively " lock in " countries to the currency system regardless of their economic condition . For example today , if a country is suffering weak growth , they can devalue their currency in order to make their exports cheaper and therefore more competitive globally . This stimulates growth in the economy through increased demands for lower priced goods . With only a single currency , this would not be possible . As mentioned in another comment , there really is no ELI5 , because it is an incredibly complex subject and it has never been tried . You can make general statements about how it would affect certain market dynamics , but no conclusive statements on what it would do on
Other people probably have a lot more to say on this topic , but one simple answer is : Because the people who develop most of the software do it for free . All the different parts of Ubuntu and all of the software packages that you use when you use Ubuntu are all developed by separate groups of people , including many many individual hobbyists , who do n't all belong to one organization . Ubuntu * is * associated with a company , called Canonical ( which makes money by selling support services ) , but , in general , the vast majority of what you might think of as parts of " Ubuntu " are n't developed by Canonical employees . Addendum : For more about this , search for the history of GNU / Linux , the free software movement , and Debian ( which Ubuntu is based on ) .
Hello , Catholic priest here . . . In popular culture these are called the seven " deadly " sins , but in more informed contexts , they are called the seven " capital " sins ( or vices ) . They are called " capital " vices from the Latin word for " head . " They are heads in two different ( but related ) senses : 1 . Contrary to popular belief , they are not the most serious sins . Rather , they are the fundamental dispositions from which other sins follow . The capital sins are the most basic disordered dispositions that people tend to have . So for instance , the capital sin of wrath is less serious than murder , but wrath disposes a person for murder . Again , the capital sin of lust is less serious than adultery , but lust disposes a person for adultery . The idea is that uprooting sin is largely the task of uprooting the capital vices by practicing the virtues which are contrary to them . 2 . The capital vices provide a sort of classification system for a variety of other vices . The traditional list of " capital vices " was the product of a long process of evolution in the early Church . It reached its classical statement with Pope Gregory I ( and was elaborated on throughout the middle ages ) . For each of the seven capital vices , Gregory
Plastic does deteriorate over time , especially when exposed to heat or cold , which a vehicle can easily reach 100 + degrees or below freezing . Also , when a vehicle is in an accident , the impact can create stress on the plastic that creates small fractures that are n't noticeable but the integrity is compromised . For manufacturers , that 's just a lot of reliability so by limiting it to a certain time period , it reduces that liability .
> Do they get paid ? I wish . > How are they chosen ? When a user creates a subreddit ( anyone can create a subreddit ) they become that subreddit 's sole moderator . They can then add more moderators , and give those moderators the ability to add other moderators . > Who moderates them ? The reddit admins , though they tend to be very hands - off , and only get involved when the reddit terms of service are being violated , or someone is breaking the law .
Designers come out with styles which are fashionable among the elite for being new and interesting . " Lesser " designers adopt some elements of those styles for clothing for less wealthy . The lowest designers adopt some elements of those styles for regular folks . Regular folks ( for the most part ) buy what is on the racks and in catalogs .
As your question is written now, it looks like you have a typo. Your stated APR is 5.542% = 0.05542, not 0.005542 as you've written. I ran the numbers that you gave (accounting for the typo) through the formula at Wikipedia and got $849.2528 / month, which will round to $849.25 for most payments. That doesn't match the number that you computed or the number on your TIL. (Maybe you also miskeyed the result of your calculation?) I agree that it's unlikely that this is just a calculation error by the mortgage company, although I wouldn't completely rule it out. Are you paying anything else like a property tax escrow? I didn't pull a blank TIL form to see what might go into the monthly payment line that you showed, but in many cases you do pay more than just principle and interest each month. (Not sure if that gets reflected at that point on the form though.)
They do rust . The entire point of hemoglobin , which is what had the iron in your blood , is to rust , IE bind to oxygen , to transport it around the body , because oxygen can not dissolve in high enough amounts in the liquid . If iron would not rust in your body there would be no use to it . But you must understand that you are not entirely correct . Iron rusts if it exposed to oxygen . If you burn iron , it also rusts . Rusting is binding to oxygen . You do nt need water for it , it just speeds it up . However , in your red bloodcells , iron is not present in a structure like in a spoon , but it is part of a larger molecule . In your body , diffusion , which makes things go from a place with little to a place with lots , regulates how and if the blood absorbs or expels oxygen or carbondioxide .
As you may have noticed , this entire thread is now locked . This is something of a " nuclear option " for us moderators , so a bit of explanation is in order . We 're not going to speculate as to whether or not " anus rhythm " was a carefully - crafted title to get upvotes or a simple victim of autocorrect , but for the purposes of this submission , we 're giving the OP the benefit of the doubt , and erring on the side of " autocorrect mishap " . So the title itself is not the direct issue . The issue is how others are responding to that title . If you read the rules in the sidebar , they say : > Direct replies to the original post ( aka " top - level comments " ) are for serious responses only . Jokes , anecdotes , and low effort explanations are not permitted and subject to removal . The only valid responses to the question posed by the OP are ones that take the typo in stride ( maybe even joke about it , that 's fine ) , and then * explain how aneurysms work * . That 's it . That 's the only type of top - level comment that we allow ( that , or a related , * serious * followup question ) . Instead , over 95 % of the comments have been jokes or
No , but it does minimize foreign influence . If the leader was British , he might give the British unfair trade deals and support the British in areas where it 's not in the best interests of the Nation . Take it one step further . Imagine that the UK then attacked the USA . The leader is now torn , obviously he defends the nation he leads , but does he simply resist ? Or does he destroy the UK ? How does he treat Canada ? If he destroys the UK , how will the press handle it ? Will he be the man who betrayed his homeland ? Or will he be the man who hurt his homeland to defend his home ?
The compressor for the AC does n't burn fuel itself , but it 's driven by the car 's engine via a belt and clutch assembly . It saves weight and space to have the compressor be run this way , rather than fitting an extra electric motor to run it . It would also drain your battery in no time if you had your AC on without the car 's engine running . Edit : forgot to explain how an electric AC would still cause higher fuel consumption , but there are other comments that have that part covered .
Hi,I can understand your concern for itchy skin rash that started on thighs and is spreading now. There can be multiple possibilities of the dark brownish pigmented spots and it requires a close physical examination to diagnose the exact entity of the problem.In my view correlating with the facts you have provided it appears to be fungal infection of the area.I suggest you to meet a dermatologist to for proper therapy. In between you should wash the area properly. If I were your dermatologist then presumptively would have preferred to apply an antifungal cream such as clotrimazole or miconazole. You can take an antihistamine such as loratadine for once a day if itching is present.Do not try to pinch, pop or squeeze the area as it may cause secondary infection of the area.All the best
It 's just dust and oil that your eye naturally builds up . It gets cleaned off and blows away when you 're awake because you 're blinking , but when you sleep , it all collects in your tear ducts and hardens into eye boogers . Since your eyes have to stay clean , they have a built - in self - cleaning system , and eye boogers are just the built - up result .
There 's a muscle right under your lungs . You use that muscle to breathe in and out . When you have hiccups , that muscle is twitching and having spasms for some reason . Those spasms make you breathe in a little bit of air really fast , and then stop really fast ... which are hiccups . I find that the best way to stop hiccups is to take a deep breath and hold it for a few seconds , and then * * slowly * * breathe in and out a few times . Doing this seems to make that muscle relax and stop twitching .
Fires can cause enormous winds or amplify existing ones . The rising heat they generate sucks in wind at its base and forces heated air upward at a tremendous rate . That rising heat can take burning embers with it , particularly if launched from , say , a high branch on a tree . If the prevailing wind ABOVE the inward - sucking one at the fire 's level is blowing in a direction that will cross the river , and it 's going sixty kilometers an hour ( about forty miles an hour ) , that ember only has to survive and glow for a single minute before it can land on something flammable on the other side of that river . And forest fires produce LOTS of embers .
The more mass something has , the more force it feels from gravity ( i.e. the more it weighs ) . However , the object 's * inertia * ( its resistance to being moved ) increases with mass , as well . When an object is dropped , the increased force of gravity from its mass is exactly canceled out by the increased resistance to movement from its mass , and , all other things being equal ( i.e. with no air resistance ) , all objects will fall at the same speed ) . * * * * * Here , have some math : Equation for gravitational force : F = ( G \ * m*_1 _ * \ * m*_2 _ * ) / r^(2 ) Equation for force from acceleration : F = m \ * a Let 's mark which mass is the earth , and which is the object : F = ( G \ * m*_object _ * \ * m*_earth _ * ) / r^(2 ) F = m*_object _ * \ * a Now let 's substitute the second equation into the first : m*_object _ * \ * a = ( G \ * m*_object _ * \ * m*_earth _ * ) / r^(2 ) Divide both sides by m*_object _ * : ( m*_object _ * \ * a ) / m*_object _ * = ( G \ * m*_object _ * \ * m*_earth _ *
It has a pretty limited range of solutions it can find . Drivers needing updated , is the one I get sometimes . Bad compatibility . It 's like ... your foot hurts . And you go to the shoe place to say " why does my foot hurt ? " They can only tell you that it is or is n't a problem with your shoes . And sometimes they can say " oh you have a rock in your shoe " or " your shoes are too small " , but if the problem is that you got a splinter , or your brother stepped on your foot , they ca n't see that . They only know shoes .
Your money does n't go to the company . It goes to the person who sold the shares to you . The exception is where you are buying shares that the company has just issued . Then they put your cash in their bank account , and swap it for the shares they issue to you of the same value . In this case the company is swapping " cash now " for " maybe we will pay you dividends back later " .
Sometimes , they are just regular server hardware , connected via ethernet - the same cable that you use to connect a PC to the internet if you do n't use wireless . The server hardware is n't too different from the hardware that normal PCs have , the main difference being that they can have much more memory and have some other features that improve reliability and make them easier to maintain . ( edit : Of course you can put multiple server CPUs on a single board . ) This is possible if the CPUs do n't all need to exchange much data - for example if the NSA wants to hack a password , the work can simply be divided up between all cores of the computer . But in other applications , all the CPUs need to work together . It may be that the result of a calculation from CPU # 1 is needed by CPU # 953 on the other side of the room - so it needs to get there very , very quickly , or else CPU # 953 has nothing to do . For this purpose , hardware specifically designed for supercomputers exists , where all the CPUs can communicate over an extremely fast network .
It 's actually called trypophobia ( rather than tryptophobia ) , but it is not a scientifically recognized phobia . Neither is there an official diagnosis for it . What most people describe as trypophobia does n't follow the characteristics of a phobia . Rather than fear , those who claim trypophobia report feelings of unease , skin crawling , anxiety and nausea , among other things . TL;DR : What OP describes is exactly what trypophobia is , but it is n't a real phobia .
... that has to be , like , the silliest argument in the world . I mean , the plague killed millions and millions of people , so it 's not like it just went away on its own and everything was fine . Also , there have been a couple extremely deadly flu epidemics , and we all know flu vaccines work pretty damn well . The Spanish Flu epidemic in 1918 killed upwards of 50 million people , and I do n't think we want a repeat of that . Anyway , the way that pandemics end is that people develop an immunity . If you catch the plague but do n't die from it , you wo n't get it again because your body knows how to fight it off . You do n't even have to get sick to build an immunity , it 's possible that your body will get a small enough infection that it just gets fought off without you noticing . So , eventually there 's a point where the infectious agent just sort of fades away because it ca n't survive in people 's immune systems anymore . No viable hosts , no disease . This is actually * exactly * how vaccines work , and why they 're so effective . They give you a very mild " dose " of the disease ( or a deactivated version of the virus in many cases ) , which your body can
If you want to save up money for when you grow old like your grandma and grandpa , then you 'll need to learn about stocks . You know how there 's a Walmart in every city you go to ? Well , Walmart is a really big store that people own , but it 's too big to own by any individual person . What they need to do is split the company up into lots of small pieces , so lots of people can get together and own a company as a big group . When people do that , the part of the company they own is called a " stock " . When you have old toys you do n't want anymore , you can sell them at a yard sale , right ? And other kids come along and buy them from you ? Well , stocks work the same way . They go online to a big store called a " Stock Market " that lets grown ups buy and sell stocks . Since so many grown ups care about these stocks , they have prices from the Stock Market that get updated all the time saying how much a stock is worth . I want you to imagine for a second that you 're a corn farmer , and you 're trying to plan how much money you 'll make at the end of the year . What do you do ? Right
As someone who used meth , been clean for 14 years now , I can confirm what most people have said . Definitely causes dry mouth . Grinding your teeth is very common . Forgetting common oral hygiene while on a bender , yup . As for eating , for me at least , was not something I commonly did while using . It worked as an appetite suppressant and I would have to force myself to eat , when I would have a moment of clarity that is . And when I would eat or drink something I definitely was something of the sugary unhealthy variety .
Open source software allows anyone who knows how to program to modify the software to suit their needs . They can also make their improvements available for others to use . Because of this , open - source software grows and improves as the community fixes bugs and adds new features . EDIT : Also , you get the penguin in TF2 .
It 's a webcomic that also incorporates flashes , gifs , music , and text conversations . It is a huge and very complicated story that contains thousands of pages with lots of dying and time traveling . The story starts out with a group of friends who are trying to play this very important game , but the plot quickly becomes very complex as universes , aliens and multiple timelines are introduced . The Homestuck fandom is notoriously enthousiastic and like many other fandoms there are a ton of cosplayers , shippers , fan artists and even fan made music . Also the plot of Homestuck can be quite meta , and often references or makes fun of itself and its fandom , all the while somehow still contributing to Homestuck .
Your nose doe most of your tasting . You can only taste 4 sensations ( sour , sweet , salty and bitter ) the rest is all done with your nose . Your brain takes the information your nose is receiving , the info your mouth is receiving and combines it to make the final taste you process . This is why when you have a cold food can often taste very bland .
Mobile advertising is a form of advertising via mobile (wireless) phones or other mobile devices. It is a subset of mobile marketing, mobile advertising can take place as text ads via SMS, or banner advertisements that appear embedded in a mobile web site. It is estimated that U.S. mobile app-installed ads accounted for 30% of all mobile advertising revenue in 2014, and will top $4.6 billion in 2016, and over $6.8 billion by the end of 2019. Other ways mobile advertising can be purchased include working with a Mobile Demand Side Platform, in which ad impressions are bought in real-time on an Ad exchange. Another report has indicated that worldwide mobile digital advertising spend would reach $185 billion in 2018, $217 billion in 2019 and $247 billion in 2020.
It 's something that develops over time . I 'd use wine for an example but I do n't drink wine so I 'll use soda instead . I can blindly open up a can of Coke and a can of Dr Pepper and immidiatly tell the difference between the two . Going even further , as far as cola is concerned , I easily tell the difference between Coke , Pepsi , RC or store brand . Some people can do that with whiskey . My sister , who does n't drink much soda , would open the cans and only smell " soda " in the same way you just smell alcohol .
Fat only stores raw energy ( calories ) - it does n't store any of the vitamins , minerals , and proteins your body needs in order to maintain itself . Supposedly there have been one or two examples where fat people have survived amazingly long times without eating solid food , but they were all taking tons of supplements and had doctors watching them like hawks the entire time .
Well the quick list : He 's a republican , which automatically means most of the die hard democrats are going to dislike him . On top of that he was part of a newish wing of republicans known as neocons , which had views that chased away some of the moderates in the middle . Many of the people he chose for his cabinet were shoe ins from the Reagan era , who were pretty controversial figures . He was really bad about saying exactly the wrong thing at the wrong time , both in terms of just stupid slips of the tongue ( " is our children learning ? " ) and major fuckups like his handling of the Katrina disaster ( " heck of a job Brownie " , suggesting that the predominantly black people stranded in the superdome were living in better conditions than they had been before and the MISSION ACCOMPLISHED banner all come to mind . ) His vice president and a lot of his cabinet were also really good about saying the wrong thing at exactly the wrong time . ( Rumsfeld claiming we 'd be greeted with flowers and candy in Iraq for example ) The Iraq war : They basically fabricated a case that Iraq supported terrorism and was manufacturing WMDs in order to invade the country . Many called the case bullshit and turned out to be right . The war did n't go nearly as well as Bush and
people can go days between instances of using , on occasion , and still be physically addicted to the drug . you do n't need to constantly be doing a drug to be addicted to it . it remains in your system for a time . as it is processed by your body the need for it becomes greater and greater . you do n't just do the drugs , feel the high , and then they 're gone .
I do n't know if it 's outright disallowed , it 's just rare , because someone eating is so mundane and an everyday occurrence , there 's really no reason to . That said , I have seen pictures of Obama and past presidents eating , although in most cases , they were staged PR stunts ( i.e. eating a particular menu item at a particular restaurant , perhaps they are located in an area with a high amount of supporting voters , etc . )
Air Jordans are a very successful brand of athletic shoes and tend to be priced at the [ higher end ] ( URL_1 ) of the market . ( Note , I 'm not a sneakerhead so those might be out of stock elsewhere and thus selling at an extra premium ) . African Americans spend more than average on [ footwear ] ( URL_0 ) . As a percentage of expenditures it 's double that of whites and slightly higher than Hispanics . The suggestion is that athletic shoes like Air Jordans make up a disproportionate portion of the gap .
The Internet has worked so well for so long because once you 're on the Internet , you 're allowed to exchange traffic with whoever you like anywhere else on the Internet . That could be a big video content provider , a small political web site or a friend on the other side of the world . We call this network neutrality . Residential broadband providers find themselves with a very strong market position because most of their customers do n't have another broadband option . They 're using that strong position to bully other companies - their Internet neighbors as well as distant companies they 're not directly connected to . They 're breaking network neutrality and testing the limits that their customers , other companies and the FCC are willing to allow . Many of us are concerned that the FCC will allow greater and greater abuses and would like laws to prevent them .
You can likely use bollinger band values to programmatically recognize sideways trending stocks. Bollinger band averages expand during periods of volatility and then converge on the matched prices the longer there is little volatility in the asset prices. Also, look at the bollinger band formula to see if you can glean how that indicator does it, so that you can create something more custom fit to your idea.
Battleships became obsolete because of technological advancements and changing naval warfare tactics and combat scenarios . With the development of long range radar and accurate missile systems , the battleship 's large caliber guns became outdated and a hindrance to modern naval combat . Could the battleship 's guns be made to fire at a greater range ? Yes , however you still generally would need to fire more rounds than missiles to disable an enemy vessel . Missiles took away the need for large storage space of rounds / powder . The reduced storage allowed smaller faster ships to be made , that are just as deadly , if not more so . Generally now , the key to strong naval warfare is detection and range . Large naval guns required you to position your ship closer to threats , compared with missile paired with radar guidance . Naval shore bombardment is now done with aircraft and tomahawk cruise missiles . Both allow the ships to stay far off shore , which is much safer . Tanks operate on different battlefield . If you send in just a battalion of tanks and men , generally they will be firing on targets that are seen and not over the horizon . On land , you ca n't shoot out a radar signal hundreds of miles ( hills and other obstacles restrict it ) and ground targets are not easily picked up because of those obstructions . Tanks could switch to
This troubles me a lot too , but really what it is is evidence of the power that writing , language , and institutionalized history has on the global retention of past knowledge . I was having a conversation with a historian friend of mine about this very topic , and he raised the excellent point of complex systems in human society being responsible for this phenomena . Absolutely everything that gives us quality of life and infrastructure in our society today is because of our ancestors putting their effort and their livelihoods into creating those systems . After dozens of generations , the cumulative work of all of these humans becomes impossible to recreate if lost . For instance , the fall of the Roman Empire . When the Roman Empire fell , there was a significant period of intellectual and economic regression in Western Europe that we know as the Dark Ages . There is virtually * * * zero * * * written historical data about this period of time , and the details of what exactly happened during these few centuries is something completely shrouded in obscurity for historians . While the way that the Dark Ages is talked about today is a bit of a misnomer as I 'm sure * * * many * * * historically minded people will point out to me , ( China and the East in general continued to develop during the Dark Ages ) it does provide interesting
That seems very high , but it is a beautiful painting and a piece of history . Rothko is one of the most famous contemporary painters . He is very well known for works like this which are simple combinations of color . Some of them are extraordinarily beautiful . I doubt they generally sell for anywhere near this much , but I suppose they probably do n't sell very often .
Economics is not my subject , but it is just of note that the economic recovery did not really succeed until the 1960s , at which point Japan experienced its " economic miracle " that lasted until the 1990s . US aid is only part of that story , but the US did aid in the initial rebuilding of Japan , gave Japan favorable trade policies , and helped them re - organize their economy . As for why the US did it , it is because the US wanted Japan to be its major , permanent ally in the Far East , especially with a perceived growing threat from the USSR . The Chinese Revolution in 1949 , and the Korean War in 1950 , further emphasized the usefulness and importance of having a strong ally ( and the host of several military bases ) over there . The US did do such a thing for Europe , to a degree . The Marshall Plan was explicitly a plan to help rebuild Europe and stimulate its economic development , so that it would not become fertile ground for extremist , illiberal ideologies like fascism and , especially , communism . But other than West Germany , the US did not occupy European countries to the same extent that it did Japan , so its influence was not as radical as it was in the countries where it stayed and ran things for a decade . One thing you have
For a number of reasons . It 's professional looking . It helps them blend . It reduces the public intimidation factor . I would feel nervous if a politician was surrounded by a bunch of heavily armed men in khaki pants and vests . It also conceals weaponry and other equipment well . I would n't take a swipe at the president if I do n't know who the Secret service guys are in a crowd , or what they are packing .
The faster you travel through space , the slower you travel through time . As your speed * approaches * the speed of light ( but you can never actually * * reach * * the speed of light ! ! ) , you come closer and closer to being frozen in time ( but can never actually * * be * * frozen in time ! ! ) . So , if you travel at 99.99 % ( or whatever ) of the speed of light , you age very slowly .
the theory behind it is that a human can decipher the letters while a machine due to it being horrible at recognising jumbled words they can not decipher the message making it impossible for it to get into past the captcha . computers are getting better and better though so captchas are getting harder and harder to decipher by humans .
Well , if you did as much with it as a thinner person , sure . Some very overweight people ( sumo wrestlers are an extreme example ) a hella strong . If you could strip away the weight instantly , they would be jacked . But of course , you ca n't , so however strong an overweight person is , it 's tempered by having to carry all that weight . And ... most overweight people are less active , both as a cause of the weight , and an effect of it . If I gave you a 200 pound backpack , you 'd spend a lot more of your life sitting down .
You are seeing what is basically a semi - transparent disk from the viewpoint of being inside it . You see the densest , most noticeable part of the disk material in the direction out through its flat extent , which surrounds you in a circular band . [ This part ] ( URL_1 ) of the popular " The Known Universe " video might help . Remember , the everyday experience of being in front , behind , or inside of things , like you experience in your normal surroundings , holds just the same all the way out as far as the whole galaxy , and further . If you think about it , it makes sense that looking out from inside of [ this ] ( URL_0 ) will look like [ this ] ( URL_3 ) . If you were floating in space , and had superhero night vision , you would see [ this ] ( URL_2 ) when you pan around . The bright area is the center of the galaxy .
A company called Nielsen Media Research randomly selects households from all over the country , about 25,000 at any given time . They install meters in those households that send them data each day what each household 's TV was tuned to that day . Then they extrapolate that data to make a projection about how many people out of the whole population watched any given show based on their sample . Source : URL_0
Socialism is government running an industry . The US Postal Service is a socialist enterprise . Statism ( and there are other names ) is the government ordering people and businesses to do things they do n't want to . Obamacare is statist , but not socialist , because it orders people to buy health care , but is not actually a government run health care system . Communism is " the people " ( which inevitably means the government ) owning most or all property . You no longer own your farm , the state does . They might allow you to keep farming on it a while , until they decide you are needed instead to make bathtubs or smelt iron .
> Fox is a brevity code used by NATO pilots to signal the simulated or actual release of an air - to - air munition or other combat function . Army aviation elements may use a different nomenclature , as the nature of helicopter - fired weapons is almost always air - to - surface . ' Fox ' is short for ' foxtrot ' , the phonetic designation for the letter ' F ' , which is short for ' fire ' . The radio call announcing that a weapon has been fired is intended to help avoid friendly fire , cuing other pilots to ensure that they do not maneuver into the path of harm . > There are four variations of the Fox brevity word , with a number added to the end of Fox to describe the primary type of sensors the launched munition possesses ( if applicable ) . In addition , a separate brevity word for gunfire exists and is grouped with the four Fox codes for convenience . > Fox One - Indicates launch of a semi - active radar - guided missile ( such as the AIM-7 Sparrow).[1 ] > Fox Two - Indicates launch of an infrared - guided missile ( such as the AIM-9 Sidewinder).[1 ] > Fox Three - Indicates launch of an active radar - guided missile ( such as the AIM-120 AMRAAM and AIM-54 Phoenix).[1 ] > Fox Four - Historical term indicating air - to -
You can make estimated tax payments on Form 1040-ES. Most people who make such payments need to do it quarterly because the typical reasons for making estimated payments is something like self-employment income that a person will get throughout the year. If you have a one-time event like a single, large sale of stock, however, there's nothing wrong with doing it just one quarter out of the year. When it comes time to file your taxes, part of the calculate is whether you were timely quarter-by-quarter not just for the entire year, so if you do have a big "one-time" event mid-year, don't wait until the end of the year to file an estimated payment. Of course, if the event is at the end of the year, then you can make it a 4th quarter estimated payment.
Its an easy way to break up play and let everyone reset into a better defensive or attacking position . Going down and staying down attracts a lot of attention . Diving is technically a foul , but the pace at which football is played makes trying to judge an individual action like this as hard as refereeing a boxing match from outside the ring . Its often easier to give an indirect free kick ( One you can not score from , must be a pass . ) than to straight up card people for something that might not of happened . Its now unfortunately part of the sport . Source : I 'm from England . ( Or EN - GURGH - LAND if you speak football )
The ability to paint in perspective was not developed till the Renaissance - this is critical for a painting to look hyperrealistic . In other ages size and placement of things in a painting were not meant to show physical location or spacial relationships but rather power or hierarchical or spiritual relationship . So in ancient Egyptian works ( for example ) the pharaoh is always shown larger than others .
sour is the taste of an acid . acid slowly eats away at the inside of your mouth . if it gets far enough through , it 'll be sore until it heals up again . edit : also , in the case of sour Skittles , the sour flavoring is in little crystals on the outside . they scratch up the inside of your mouth , which lets the acid get into those cuts . that 'll do more damage to your mouth flesh .
The tomatometer is an index based on reviews by approved professional critics . Let 's take a movie such as [ G.I. Joe : Retaliation ] ( URL_1 ) . When you look at [ the reviews ] ( URL_0 ) , you can see quotes from some of the reviews gathered by the website . Each of these reviews is marked as a positive review ( fresh tomato ) or a negative review ( rotten tomato ) . It 's just a simple binary thing , there 's no degree of how bad or good it is . Rottentomatoes counts all the reviews they could gather , and checks what percentage of them is positive . This gives you the tomatometer value . In this case , only 42 of the 151 critics were positive , which gives the movie a 28 % tomatometer index . Depending on the value ( above or below 60 % ) , the top icon will be a fresh or rotten tomato , but that 's arbitrary . A 62 % movie is not that much better than a 58 % movie . For me the most interesting part is how easy it is to check the reviews . If a movie score is surprisingly low for you , you can check the review summary and have a look at the reviews marked as negative to see what they have to say .
> I guess what I am asking is how was the first diamond cutter cut into a diamond cutter Diamonds are not cut like with a knife , they are ground with abrasive materials . Typically this is done with a diamond abrasive which is basically just crushed up tiny diamond bits , which are far more common than gemstone sized diamonds . If you are finding diamonds you want to cut you already have a lot of potential abrasive compounds that you mined around it . So there was no " diamond cutter cut into a diamond cutter " because they are n't cut into shape .
The turntable does n't help heat the food ; it helps the food heat evenly . Microwave ovens tend to have areas in which the intensity of the microwaves is less than others . We 've probably all had the burrito which is the temperature of molten lead at one end , but icy cold at the other , which is a result of this kind of variation in the wave intensity . The turntable keeps things moving so that the entire burrito gets heated .
It is * waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay * too long to post in a thread ... Edit : I added a bunch of stuff to make other stuff make more sense . Edit2 : Added info on the World and Heart Keys . More delight , hopefully less confusion . I know @Sinistersnare is going to try this out too , so until he posts I will have this up as a set of guidelines . Keep in mind the story is quite complex and evolving , so what I have here is the * * gist * * of the story . There are a lot of things I kept out of the sake of fewer characters , and I left out Re : Coded completely ( because that tends to make people even more confused ) . Anyway , here I go : BBS . This is * not * where KH begins , KH is meant to start with Sora and Riku 's story . BBS is a step before this , and is meant to be explained later . In BBS , you have three keyblade wielders ( Aqua , Ventus and Terra ) who go out and get get themselves into trouble , basically . Xehanort , who is later revealed to be the * * chief * * enemy of the KH series , reveals his plot to conquer Kingdom Hearts , and takes the body of Terra in the process . His plan fails , but
> when I 've seen countless videos of people jumping off taller cliffs into rougher waters ? You probably have n't . World record high dives are about 170 feet , and your typical Acapulco cliff dive is a little over 100 . The Golden Gate Bridge is 220 feet from the surface . Also , divers are trained to displace as little water as possible when they enter , which reduces the force on their bodies . Your flailing bridge jumper will have it a lot worse . Finally , those divers have crews ready to rescue them if they get knocked out or injured . People who jump off bridges and are still alive but incapacitated stand a very good chance of drowning .
Have you ever approached a helicopter with the blades still turning ? The blade might be between 50 - 100 cm above your head , but it 's just a natural tendency to want to duck just in case . I call it The Highlander Reflex - you instinctively want to stop your head coming away from your body .
It is a brand name that IBM is applying to a large number of artificial intelligence , machine learning , and pattern recognition technologies -- including the software , hardware , and services involved in doing so . Originally , it was announced as the machine that could be humans an Jeopardy , but it 's really a big collection of technologies .
Cleanup took a really long time , and the property where the former towers stood is private property . Negotiating and planning to rebuild a skyscraper takes a long time . Plus , there was lots of infighting about how to best pay tribute to the former towers and all the people that were inside them . Not so with the Pentagon , which was Government property . Once they agreed on a memorial it was just a matter of getting a construction company on contract .
There is n't some mystical difference between memories . Things like the alphabet are easy to remember because we recite them over and over and have mnemonics ( like the song or silly little rhymes ) to help remember them . We forget a lot of other things from our childhood because they only happen once and are n't that special in the long run .
You , as in you experiencing the world , are the result of a lot of " emergent " behavior . Which is a fancy way of saying that enough simple things can create complex things . For instance , with enough water molecules , you get wet . Even if a single one does n't . You are the result of a lot of neurons sending electrical signals to one another . They all connect to each other in different ways . Those connections are created , strengthened , some weaken and some go away . A neuron will fire whenever it gets a jolt from another neuron . They initially get those from your senses . So one cell in your eye gets hit with light . Those signals go all the way back to your neurons , which start sending signals to each other . If some pattern of neurons gets jolted a lot , such as seeing something that looks like a cat , they become your cat neurons . whenever another set of jolts activates some or all of those neurons , you get " cat " in your head . It could be seeing the word , hearing a meow or thinking about cute fuzzy things . You get cat because all of those neurons are connected to the neurons about cat . They become your concept of " cat " .
The best way Steampunk has been explained to me is " what if someone from the 19th century were explained a futuristic technology , then asked to use the available resources they had to make that conceptualization a reality ? " You know how futuristic shows / movies / tv always has a bit of flavor of the time ? For example , Star Trek ( the original ) has '' futuristic '' technology , but it 's still stuff from the 1960 's . The '' computers '' that they envisioned were big and blocky , and had typewriters on them , instead of elegant , small technology such as iPads or smartphones . Well , Steampunk is what someone from Victorian 19th century might envision the future to be . You might have a computer , but all you can really envision it being run by is steam power and gears , and made of brass or copper . Because that 's all you have at the time to conceptualize it . So Steampunk typically is people having fun with this concept , in art , clothes , style and visual media .
HEY EVERYONE ! SEE THIS THING RIGHT HERE ? WELL , NOBODY LOOK AT IT , OKAY ? IT 'S VERY IMPORTANT THAT NOBODY EVEN KNOW ABOUT IT . WE'VE EVEN PUT UP A BIG FLASHING NEON * * DON'T LOOK AT THIS * * SIGN NEXT TO IT , IN FACT . EVERYBODY CLEAR ON THAT ? JUST DON'T LOOK OVER THERE .
TED Conferences, LLC (Technology, Entertainment, Design) is an American-Canadian non-profit media organization that posts international talks online for free distribution under the slogan "ideas worth spreading". TED was founded by Richard Saul Wurman and Harry Marks in February 1984 as a tech conference, in which Mickey Schulhof gave a demo of the compact disc that was invented in October 1982. It has been held annually since 1990. TED covers almost all topics – from science to business to global issues – in more than 100 languages. To date, more than 13,000 TEDx events have been held in at least 150 countries. TED's early emphasis was on technology and design, consistent with its Silicon Valley origins. It has since broadened its perspective to include talks on many scientific, cultural, political, humanitarian, and academic topics.[10] It has been curated by Chris Anderson, a British-American businessman, through the non-profit TED Foundation since July 2019 (originally by the non-profit Sapling Foundation).[11][12] The main TED conference is held annually in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, at the Vancouver Convention Centre. The first TED conferences from 1984 (TED1) through 2008 (TED2008) were held at the Monterey Conference Center in Monterey, California.[13] Between 2009 and 2014, the conference was held in Long Beach, California, United States.[14] TED events are also held throughout North America and in Europe, Asia, and Africa, offering live streaming of the talks. TED returned to Monterey, California in 2021 with TEDMonterey. They address a wide range of topics within the research and practice of
Because it is a common theme . Emotionally distant fathers ( who represent the first real man in a girls life ) leave a young woman craving attention . This often manifests in being sexually overt as a means of gaining some sort of recognition from a man . Its by no means a guarantee , it turns out that sex is just awesome and girls like it at least as much as guys do , but its a common enough theme that its become a trope of media .
high temperature can cause your blood vessels to expand and to spread the heat across your body to get it to sweat the heat out . most people get heat stroke they can get delirious , get dehydrated and because of that the organs can shutdown after a while . cold temperature causes your blood vessels to contract and preserve heat . this can make your blood stop flowing in some areas and decay and rot parts of your body . both of these are very serious but the difference between these two is a cold temperature causes your body to shake which uses energy and you can when you 're cold you ca n't reproduce cells at a fast metabolic rate
So you 've got Socrates ' idea of how arguments work through thesis , antitheses and synthesis as /u / ameba spells out above . Basically you talk , you find common ground , and the new common ground forms the basis of your future understanding . Socrates thought you did that until you got to the " right " answer , then stopped . Then Hegel took it to the next step and basically said all thought , all words , and all understanding of everything , but particularly in terms of philosophical concepts , is the consequence of dialectic . We talk , we argue , we come to a shared understanding . That understanding = what we think is the correct answer at that point . Until someone else builds on it by arguing more . So there is no right answer , there 's just the evolution of understanding through time . Then Marx takes it one step further with his concept of * dialectical materialism * . That basically means that if you apply the idea of the dialectic to history and to politics you realise that reality itself is what we decide it is , and so we can change it through argument . Take any assumption you make about the way the world is and Marx will say that that assumption is historical : it is correct now but it might not be correct in future because we are constantly changing our conception
Glare . The light does pass through both ways but if the reflective side of the glass is brightly lit , and the non reflective side is in a darker room , then the person looking at the glass will only see the brighter light of their reflection . If you turned off the lights in the mirror side of the glass , and somebody on the invisible side of the glass turned on a flashlight , you would be able to see it . Think of it like trying to look through the glare of a windshield on a sunny day and not being able to see inside the car easily , because the reflected light is much stronger than the light coming from inside the car .
Gravity is technically not the same all the way to the ground . Near the surface of the earth , it 's around 9.8 meters per second , or 32 feet per second per second if you 're American . If you go up higher , it 's less , but the effect is generally negligible until you 're miles and miles up in the air . Anyway , that 's not what matters , really . Gravity is an * acceleration * ( force , technically ) , not a * velocity * ( speed , for our purposes ) . An acceleration is a change in velocity . For example , if your car goes from 0 mph to 10 mph in a second , it * accelerated * by 10 mph per second . Acceleration is caused by * force * . Force is , loosely , a " push . " When a force acts on a mass , it causes an acceleration . Weight ( ie pounds * ) is actually a measure of force , specifically the force due to gravity , which is why you weigh less on the Moon even though your mass is the same . When you push on something , you 're applying a force to it . You change its velocity , which is an acceleration . Similarly , gravity pushes ( really , pulls ) on everything with mass , so it is applying an acceleration .
I 'm no expert , but at some point I was reading about contacts on Wikipedia , and it seems to come down to the material used . Your cornea ( the clear part of your eye covering your Iris and pupil ) needs to be exposed to oxygen in the air , because normally it does n't have blood vessels to carry oxygen to it . Normally your tears get oxygen from the air , then the cornea gets it 's oxygen from your tears , however contact lenses can stop the oxygen from reaching your cornea . ( During the night your eyelids supply oxygen ) . When you deprive the cornea of oxygen ( i.e stopping oxygen rich air from reaching it ) , you can cause serious problems . For example blood vessels can start to grow into your cornea ( so that blood can make up for the lack of oxygen ) , which can cause problems in your vision ( because you 'd have veins covering the front of your eye where the light comes in ) . You could also get ulcers . This is where the material used becomes important . Different materials allow different amount of oxygen to pass through . Traditional hard lenses , while being much tougher , do n't let much oxygen through , therefore you need to take them out every night to reduce the risk of starving your cornea of oxygen , and causing these problems
People believe what they want to believe . A lot of people think that 9 - 11 was conducted by our own government . Consider this : At present , NASA employs about 18,000 people . This is with a seriously reduced budget that congress keeps slashing . Consider how many people they would have employed in the 1960s when the program was in full swing . Now with a staff of 18,000 + people who are all working towards one goal , and with a massive audience that witnessed the launch , it 's simply impossible to keep a secret like with that many employees . If it was faked , somebody would have talked . And now ... [a video of Buzz Aldrin punching a moon landing conspiracy theorist who confronts him ] ( URL_0 )
As an exercise , go and buy yourself a bottle of 100 % grain alcohol , and then buy the cheapest whiskey / scotch you can find , and taste them side - by - side . I 'm pretty sure you 'll taste a difference . Note : Alcohol consumption may lead to alcoholism , pregnancy , or a good time .
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services main job is as a Transfer Agent and Dividend Paying Agent. They work on behalf of a company (say Acme Inc.) to keep track of who the shareowners are, their job is to constantly update the official record of who owns how many Acme shares. (Also, obviously, they pay out dividends). You can see how they got involved: they are the ones who were able to "rename" your deceased relative's shares so they are now in your name, no one else can do that. Now, however, they don't have to keep your shares, you can transfer them elsewhere if you wish. You will have to legally prove your identity, which is not difficult to do in most cases (assuming you are in US, have a government issued ID and a bank account, and some time to do some paperwork).
Basically , the tree absorbs the matter from the air ( Carbon Dioxide ) and the ground ( Water ) , then changes that via chemical reaction ( caused by light particles , or photons ) into a chemical energy battery of sorts ( sugar ) and the air we breathe ( Oxygen ) . It expels the latter , but holds onto the former . Throw in the standard nutrients from the soil it also absorbs , and you can see that a tree is basically the sum of months and/or years of absorption from the nearby environment . Need further explanation ? Comment here , and I will try to go into more detail on whatever subject you are n't sure about .
When the Internet first came about and there was a need to identify networked machines using a more memorable syntax than IP addresses , it was still decades away from being commercialized . There was a value in having different registries for educational ( .edu ) , governmental ( .gov ) , military ( .mil ) entities , non - profit ( .org ) and commercial ( .com ) entities who could come up with their own methods and requirements for registering machines on the Internet . When the web took off , companies started to flood the web and a gold rush ensued on .com addresses . As a lot of the good names got taken up , some looked to alternate registries such as .net and .org who did n't really restrict their use to the intended purpose . Because .com was so common , and alternate top level domains were seen as confusing to consumers , companies started to buy up domain names on multiple TLDs to avoid problems like the URL_0 fiasco . Nowadays , because so many companies / individuals have registered many more domains than originally envisioned and domain speculators are squatting on so many useful domains , domain registrars are trying to open up new TLDs that can sensibly divide up the name space , usually with industry specific purposes that are n't quite so ambiguous ( .law , .construction , .hotel , .music ) as well as usage specific ones ( .mail
Similar as for members of congress or the parliament of the country : paid by the state , just like any other public servant . Difference is how the wage is set . Usually the parliament ( Congress in the States ) has to pass a law . In most countries , since there is a clear conflict of interest ( they 'd literally be setting their own wages ) , there is usually an independent commission that is charged of setting the wages and salaries .
Grammar induction (or grammatical inference) is the process in machine learning of learning a formal grammar (usually as a collection of re-write rules or productions or alternatively as a finite state machine or automaton of some kind) from a set of observations, thus constructing a model which accounts for the characteristics of the observed objects. More generally, grammatical inference is that branch of machine learning where the instance space consists of discrete combinatorial objects such as strings, trees and graphs.
Back when alarm clocks did not exist but telephone did , there were wake - up lines . Say , if you wanted to be woken up at 6:30 , you could call those lines the night before to give your number and a wake - up time . Then they would ring your phone at that time to wake you up . It was like a no - reply mail though , you could n't hear anybody on the other end of the line .
Hi,I feel by what you quote he should be having a - Hand Foot Mouth disease. This is one viral illness among all other exanthemas which can cause fever followed by rash over palms and soles. It is a self-limiting disorder and itching can be really worrisome. I suggest you to use any over the counter antihistamine if you have one with you now. You can use Hydroxyzine at 1-2 mg/kg/dose (Maximum 10mg) every 6th to 8th hourly for 7 days. This can even cause some peeling of skin in the next 4-6 weeks and do not worry about it.Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Regards, Dr. Sumanth
It 's not a sixth sense ; it 's one of your five senses . It 's your hearing . Even the most quiet room has small amounts of ambient noise ( in film , they even have a name for it , called " room tone " or " presence " ) . Our brains are evolved to detect the direction of sound and how it " wraps " around us . When someone is near you , their presence disrupts the subtle sound reflections , causing a stereophonic " hole " . The room tone will sound slightly different to each ear , having the brain sense something is there in that hole , with 3D precision . Bats use a more evolved version of this to see in the dark . They make chirps and hear the reflections to determine their surroundings . Blind people tapping their canes can " see " by using two senses : touch ( feeling the vibrations in the cane ) , and hearing ( noting the sound of the cane sound , but also how the reflected echo sounds ) . URL_0
A slightly more in depth explanation , more like ELI10 than 5 : Inflammation is the one of the first levels of defense against infection : your body floods the area and , in general , if more fluid is flowing in than coming out it is much more difficult for bacteria to swim against a current . Because the current is going towards the infection it brings all of the good guys ( white blood cells ) with it and using a fancy chemical communication system the white blood cells call for more inflammation , increased temp , and extra help if need be like a Horn of Gondor . The cells with the quickest response to foreign invaders are Mast Cells and their ~~carrion~~ clarion cry is Histamine . This is because they evolved to work best against parasites . Parasites are usually much larger than a single white blood cell and they ca n't just be swallowed up and digested like bacteria so the best response to a parasite is to quickly make the environment as hostile as possible while stopping the invader from getting to a vital area . Whenever your body recognizes a parasite ( or something it might think is a parasite ) the mast cells release their histamine and the body 's response is swift . Flood the area with fluid , all droids to battle stations . As a side note you 've probably heard of histamines from allergy commercial or two
Since you ca n't remember much of your past life , only the really important parts and stuff that stands out , you tend to only remember a few years worth of content . So if you have 5 years worth of memories after 50 years , it can feel like those 50 years went just by as quickly as you expect the next 5 years to take .
Ultimately , there are only going to be a few ' links ' between China and the rest of the world . As long as the chinese government controls those ' links ' , they can control the traffic that flows through them . * theoretically * , a third party could * try * to run a cable out and connect without the government - but that would likely be illegal under the rules for that country , and chances are the government also owns several large network ' nodes ' within the country that would still interfere . TL;DR every country has their bottlenecks where information flows through . As long as the government controls those bottlenecks , they can control the flow of information in and out of the country .
The fact that dividends grow in perpetuity does not prevent one from calculating duration. In fact, many academic papers look at exactly this problem, such as Lewin and Satchell. This Wilmott thread discusses some of the pros and cons of the concept in some detail. PS: Although I was already broadly familiar with the literature and I use the duration of equities in some of my every-day work as a professional working in finance, I found the links above doing a simple google search for "equity duration."
A computer is good at doing several very easy tasks , but with very high speed , which can add up and produce something that is impressive because it would take humans extremly long to do the same . Math is one of those easy tasks , when it comes down to it , it 's really simple and computers are good at really simple tasks like this . Humans on the other hand , are not super fast , but can do other things and especially come up with new stuff or see that the stuff they are doing needs fixing , a thing that your computer , only doing what it was told , ca n't do .
While I am not an expert on climatology and geography , I believe it is because of the way the trade winds circulate around that section of the globe . The trade winds of that region runs smack into the mountains on the eastern portion of the continent and releases all the moisture at once and therefore there is none left to rain upon the rest of the land . Also the prevalence of exceedingly hot temperatures in the interior also limit the amount of rain that can fall based upon the adiabatic circumstances of how much moisture can be held in warm / hot air versus colder air . That last sentence would be a worthy subject of a EL5 thread itself .
Lets consider a nation of 9 people and 3 counties . 5 of the citizens support Rabbit and 4 of the citizens support Turtle . Here 's how elections work : Each county gets together and votes for one of the citizens in the county , then each elected citizen from each county gets together and has a final one - and - for - all vote . Now lets consider a couple of different county makeups . " R " is a Rabbit supporter and " T " is a Turtle supporter : 1 ) R R T 2 ) R R T 3 ) R T T In this case the first two counties would elect an R representative and the last county would elect a T representative . The final vote would end up being R R and T , giving us a win for Rabbit . Now lets consider another county makeup : 1 ) R R R 2 ) R T T 3 ) R T T The exact same citizens , just organized in a different way . Now the first county sends an R delegate and the last 2 counties send a T delegate . Now Turtle wins the race . In the second scenario Turtle won even though he got less than half of the popular vote . The trick is that the election did n't work on a straight popular vote . Instead , citizens were grouped together to cast a
Chernobyl is n't really uninhabitable . IIRC the other 3 reactors at the power plant stayed operational until 2002 . People went to work shortly after the meltdown and have not died nor developed cancer outside the normal population . The town of Pripyat which was built for the powerplant , is currently inhabited by Ukrainians that moved back shortly after the disaster . And they are doing fine . The radiation levels have dropped of so much that you get more radiation eating a banana or flying on a commercial plain than you do living in Pripyat . This is a very good question , and people more knowledgeable than I will fully answer it for you . It just ( kind of ) grinds my gears that people ( not necessarily you ) think that more than 100k people died at Chernobyl and that its some giant green glowing crater . Check out the documentary Pandora 's Promise , a great film from former anti - nuclear activists who have now fully changed their minds due to thorough science . The majority of the nuclear energy scare was due to most people associating it with bombs , and ( still currently active ) propoganda and lobbying from the fossil fuel industry .
Mobiles do n't talk to sattelites . The power of the antenna in a mobile phone is way too little for that . They talk to cellular towers that are put up everywhere , from where the signal then travels through cables typically . They then tell the telecom operators to pull the plug on mobile internet and the telecom operators shut it down .
* Lycra had n't been invented yet , so bras were made out of heavier , less flexible , less supporting fabrics * breast enhancement surgery was uncommon and more primitive * women were less active , so bras were more ornamental than practical * these factors led to a different aesthetic of female beauty , which women tried to emulate * women would could successfully emulate the aesthetic were overrepresented in the media , so you are more likely to see their pictures
Hello, Since the symptoms are getting recurrent a correct diagnosis of your condition is necessary. This way treatment ways should be clear. Degenerative spine disease, herniated disc disease, spondylolisthesis, etc. are conditions to consider in cases like yours. A neurological examination and cervical spine MRI are necessary. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care Regards,Dr Erion Spaho, Neurologist, Surgical
CO2 is over 96 % of Venus ' atmosphere . 3 % is Nitrogen and there 's a tiny amount of water vapor and other gasses . Removing enough CO2 to make it safe for humans would definitely lower the pressure a lot ( Earth 's atmosphere is less than 0.1 % CO2 and it is toxic to us in high concentrations ) . Whether or not that would leave it with an atmospheric pressure like Earth 's or substantially sparser or more dense , I 'm not too sure though ( currently Venus has about 90 Earth atmospheres of pressure at the surface ) . However , humans would n't be able to survive in any event what with the lack of oxygen and all .
A hedge fund is just a collective investment , unlike the traditional version of the stock market , a hedge fund can make money when the market is in decline . Most private investors simply go long on a share , buying it in the hope that the price will rise . For example , if a hedge fund manager " borrows " 500 shares of X company at £ 10 each , they would then sell those shares for £ 5,000 . If the price then falls to £ 8 per share , the hedge fund would buy the shares back for £ 4,000 , return them to the original owner and make a profit of £ 1,000 . In a hedge fund the profit generated is simply to do with the ability of the person managing the fund , ignoring current market conditions for the most part . As such , they are very high risk ! Can you start your own ? The simple answer is no , a hedge fund is BIG money , you 're looking at an initial investment of around £ 500,000.00 !
Just like on the roads , there are highways in the sky . Commercial aircraft fly on specified altitudes and specified " routes . " When a plane has to wait to land , there is a flight pattern that they fly in . There is a circle that they make over the airport . If there is a weather problem that closes an airport , the aircraft will go to the next airport they have been directed to . The aircraft will still follow the road in the sky . To see a good example of this , when 9/11 shut down the skies over the US , many aircraft landed in Gander , Newfoundland , Canada . The reason they all stopped there is because many international flight plans used Gander as a fueling stop . * ELI5 Version * : The airspace that commercial jets fly in is similar to the highways that many people drive on . The airports are no more than exit ramps . If one exit is closed , the jet flies to the next exit .
Laughter is simply a defensive social mechanism that tells the pack that a perceived threat or confusing situation is not actually a threat , or is a purposeful non sequitur or a sign to look for wordplay . When someone nervously laughs , it is because they are not only afraid or hurt , but also afraid to show it , so they unconsciously laugh in hopes someone else will to assure them that they have nothing to fear or a reason to feel hurt . It 's simply a unconscious , and sometimes even conscious , psychological defense mechanism and is quite normal . My niece does it .
They do n't , at all . The people behind TPB are currently serving sentences and got fined millions . The reason the site is still live is that someone else is hosting it and the founders claim they do n't know who . As it just contains the information needed to connect to somebody else with the file you want , it 's actually a very small site to host .
Most languages store arrays in consecutive memory locations . so if A is an array of ten 16 bit values , the first value might be stored in location & 12900 , the second would be two bytes later at & 12902 , the third at & 12904 , etc . If you number your array elements start from 0 , it makes the math a lot easier . You ask the computer for element A[i ] , all it has to do is start with the base address ( & 12900 ) and add i * size the data type ( 2 bytes ) to get the location of A[i ] .
It is expanding in the sense that on average , everything is moving away from everything else . It 's not expanding into anything because it is everything . This does n't mean that there is this " universe " thing in a big sea of vacuum , and you could stand outside the universe and watch it get bigger . There is no outside .
Indy car racing is the US answer to Formula 1 . Formula 1 is a worldwide racing series with top car manufacturers like McClaren , Ferrari , etc going toe to toe at race tracks all over the world . Indy Car on the other hand does have some races outside of the US , but most are at US based tracks , are mostly honda engined with teams going head to head rather than manufacturers . Think of Indy car as the stock car version of F1 . My dad does the Indy 500 for ESPN / ABC and could probably explain the technical differences a whole lot better than I could . But that is the basic jist of it .
The options market requires much more attention to avoid the situation you're describing. An overnight $10 ask will remain on the books most likely as Good-Til-Canceled. The first to bid the low order gets it. If traders are paying attention, which they probably are then they will bid at $10. If not, they will bid immediately at $20. If they crossed the order, it would be filled at their higher than $10 bid. This is all governed by the exchange where the ask is posted, and most implement price-time priority.
Older audio equipment only had one track for recording sound information . This means that when you play it back in headphones , you get the same sound in both ears ( monaural ) . When stereo equipment came along , it finally introduced the concept of two channels for sound , a left channel and a right channel . This allowed recordings to have different information for your left ear and right ear . This adds depth to the sound because now your brain can process the difference of the same sound in both ears to determine distances . It is a fuller experience .
The process that makes browns food and makes it crispy is a series of reactions between sugars and amino acids known as the Maillard reaction . This reaction takes place at around 140 - 160 degrees Celcius ( 280 - 330 ) in Fahrenheit which is well above the temperature of boiling water , oil can easily reach temperatures above that and thus allow the reactions to proceed . Temperatures below that treshold will only break down the structure of the food and result in it getting mushy .
They are not good at regulating an intersection with an uneven distribution of traffic . Take for instance , a 4 - way intersection with a traffic light . The timing of the signals can be set to give the direction with higher traffic volumes a longer green . This can be adjusted for different times of the day , to accommodate the primary direction of traffic . A roundabout ( or rotary ) does n't have that flexibility . So , during rush hour ( as an example ) , if one incoming road has the majority of the traffic , they will consistently block access to the roundabout for the other incoming roads . ( Since those in the roundabout have the right of way ) . They work for intersections with low volumes or fairly even traffic distributions though .
In addition to other reasons mentioned , autism ( at least Asperger 's ) is linked to superior long - term memory , and it is DEFINITELY linked to hypersensitivity , which makes you pick up on facts and details , beneficial for producing art or engaging in academics . I am not really talking about severely autistic savants though , but high - functioning autists , so not sire how much it applies .
Physics and engineering Before jet engines they either had to use fuel injectors or simply let the engine choke when inverted . Fuel injectors are pumps that measure conditions in the engine and actively pump fuel and engine fluids into the jet . There 's also negative pressure gradients . The air flow through the turbine causes the pressure in the turbine to be lower than inside the tank which causes fuel to flow out . This is also how trees pull water up from the ground and can generate a pretty strong amount of force
One way to crack passwords is called ' bruteforcing ' and it involves having your computer automatically try millions of combinations of passwords until it guesses the right one . This works well against simple passwords as it does n't take the computer as many guesses to get it right . For passwords that are adequately complex though , bruteforcing no longer becomes an option because it would take even the strongest computer thousands of years to finally crack them . Therefore hackers have to turn to more sophisticated methods including but not limited to : * tricking the user to give up their pass * bugging the user 's computer to record their pass as it 's typed * intercepting the user 's logon information as it travels across the network * Using techniques such as XSS , SQLi or CSRF to get the user 's logon information from the server
Based on what my mom told me ... This guy named ' White Salad ' called himself Pol Pot after coming back from Europe . He took over the country . Killed off all the smart people and made everyone into slaves . Some of the stuff my parent told me that stuck with me : * mine ... still around , but this was part of the us - vietnam thinggie . * Babies left behind so people wo n't get discovered while running away . We tease one of our brother as an abandon baby that my mom picked up . * Families were separated / killed / disappeared * People would do anything for rice * We got to go to America My take on it ... small group of people messed up a country . A country that is still messed up because of it . Watch the killing field , the movie will show you some stuff that happened .
Kim Jong - un is a huge fan of basketball . Dennis Rodman is there by invitation ( and whatever crazy reasons he has personally ) . You would n't be killed there , though . They deny a lot of people entrance to their country arbitrarily , but if they did let you in , you 'd just be watched at all times , most likely .
Cheap oil is a good thing for the consumer , and it is a great thing for the shipping industry . It is a bad thing for the oil industry . Countries that are highly dependent on the oil industry like the OPEC nation , Canada , and Russia are having issues due to prices . The US which has a much smaller percentage of its GDP dependent on oil is doing very well as a whole even though the oil industry is suffering here .
i probably can find irrational fear in your life too . everyone is scared of something . and yes , flying is safe , but planes sometimes fall . like many here said : you 're high , you 're going fast and you 're not in control and probably do n't even know what is happening with pilots . probably you do n't even know about malfunctions until they told you and if something goes wrong it will go wrong all the way . if something happens to engine in car / bus , driver just stops and it 's not a problem , just inconvenience . in plane it 's ( big ) problem .
" Post- " means something that came after , and usually refers to a movement that is a response to a previous movement . Postmodernism , thus , refers to a movement following modernism , and is a response to modernism . Modernism itself is poorly defined and varies across mediums , but one overarching theme is that there are universal truths . In the visual arts ( painting , sculpture ) , this was often manifested by a rejection of figurative art , which was seen as a falsehood . ( I 'll talk primarily about the visual arts b / c that 's my forte , but modernism and postmodernism are also big concepts with somewhat different connotations in literature , for example . ) So you have artists during this period waxing poetic about how the only " true " art is that which acknowledges only the materiality of the art medium and does not try to represent any image . For example , abstract expressionism and minimalist sculpture were celebrated ( by artists , not necessarily by the general public ) for showing the true form of the painting or sculpture medium , rather than trying to falsely represent an image . As modern art is a loosely defined movement , postmodern art is also loosely defined and takes on many different forms , but it can be largely understood as a rejection of modernism . Whereas modern art is largely preoccupied with form and aesthetic
Breaking Bad example incoming because I assume most people have seen it at this point : Walt is an unemployed schoolteacher who somehow makes thousands to millions of dollars ( making meth ) this is suspicious as all hell . Anyone looking at this money will assume he is a drug dealer , tax evader , both . He buys a carwash with some of his money , claiming initially he got it as gambling winnings . Skyler working at the carwash pretends like the carwash gets much more buisness than it actually does , this is easy because its a cash in hand buisness and all she needs to do is ring the till and make fake recipts . Now the money looks like legitimate , taxable income from the carwash .
Most modern monitors have a white backlight , and pixels composed of three smaller * subpixels * for red , blue , and green , which are tinted LCD rectangles that , when combined side - by - side - by - side , form a square . Each LCD subpixel can change its opacity from completely clear ( which makes it the same color as the tint , so pure red , blue , or green ) , to completely opaque ( which makes it black ) , and every shade in between . The subpixels are so close together that you see them all combined as a single color , and a combination of red , blue , and green light can create practically every color our eyes are able to see .
If they go out of business , shut down the servers , completely die ? everything stops working , thanks for your money , to bad , so sad . More realistically , a company that goes out of business will sell off its assets to other companies , so your steam account and library could end up being rolled in to a competitor 's service , such as Origin or UPlay if the relevant assets were purchased by Ubisoft or EA . Or a new company who is n't in the digital game distribution business could pick it up and you could wake up one day to find yourself logging on to iSteam with your apple account . TL;DR : a new company could keep the service running , transfer your account to a new service , or it could be shut down , depending on the details as to WHY steam is going out of business and what they do with the parts of the company when it does .
Osmosis and Diffusion are over simplified in most text books . This is great if you 're actually 5 . But if you 're interested in knowing * why * osmosis occurs , why things try to maintain an equilibrium of solvent and solute watch [ this ] ( URL_0 ) . I 'm going to go out on a limb and say Khan is the best teacher on the web . You can spend a few hours with him and learn more then you did in all of high school . It 's fairly amazing .
Into the air . Wood is basically long chain hydrocarbons : carbon and hydrogen chains . In the heat of the fire they are broken and both carbon and hydrogen get joined to oxygen molecules from the air . You end up with carbon dioxide which is a gas , and water ( H2O ) which because it 's hot escapes as steam . The same thing happens with food you eat and fat that you burn if you lose weight . If you do n't eat , and lose weight , fat stores are oxidised in exactly the same chemical process , releasing water and carbon dioxide which you breathe out . It 's a controlled oxidation reaction that releases energy . In both cases the carbon has been released into the air .
It can be done . By 3D modelling , this is what is happening . When a 3D model is created , it is a bunch of points in space . By using various lighting techniques , textures and some other files , what they essentially are doing is just that - create a likeness of a human , add motion and speech to it and then just render it - ( make all of it happen at full resolution ) . Many parts of the visuals are coded - such as physics engine that adds collisions , gravity etc ; Lighting engines that can simulate the light and its effects ; motion libraries to easily incorporate motion etc .. All of them are programs that run with each other . If you watched an animated movie ( such as ones by Pixar , Disney and the likes ) , that is what you are watching .
A Brit came up with the idea of time zones . Since he was British ( I know , duh ) , he decided that 12 noon in England will be the reference point . The fact that bits were everywhere helped tremendously to make it acceptable . Since , it is simple and logical , we still use it today .
In what context ? Vector is a Latin word that means " carrier " and has come to mean a number of different but sometimes conceptually similar things in different areas . Several people have posted answers explaining what a vector means in physics ( a direction and a speed ) , but maybe you 're after vectors in computer graphics - vector graphics are essentially descriptions of lines connecting points and are infinitely scaleable unlike bitmaps or raster images which are collections of pixels and become pixelated if you zoom in too far . Or perhaps you are interested in vectors in biology . Like Altiondsols says , vectors in molecular biology are tools used to insert DNA into a cell ( or you might think of them as tools to ' carry ' DNA from cell to cell ) . Also , in epidemiology ( the study of the spread of diseases ) a vector is an organism that transmits ( or carries ) a pathogen to another organism . Examples of vector - borne diseases are malaria which is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes and Lyme disease , which is transmitted to humans by ticks .
Are you including times when someone is in the room unexpectedly and you did n't hear them ? Even if you do nt hear someone enter a room their presence may be " felt " because the acoustics of the room are changed by their body . In reality you are perceiving a change in the background noise . When you open your eyes in response they are usually staring at you because they are trying to be quiet and not awake you .
Also , a dog 's system becomes used to a certain food an new food can upset their stomach even if there are no health problems involved . We randomly changed our first dog 's food ( did n't know any better at the time ) and he started puking it and his poop went weird- had to switch him to people chicken and rice with small bits of new food for a few days to sort it out . He was healthy and the vet said the new food was good , he just has a bit of a sensitive stomach .
My understanding of FPTP voting ( and its problems ! ) is explained pretty well in this youtube video . As far as I know , in " First Past the Post " voting , the candidate who gets the required number of votes ( either the most , or the majority , or a set percentage ) wins . URL_0
When you move your mouse it sends a string of numbers describing the event to the computer . The computer receives this information and makes the relevant changes in it 's own memory ( the cursor has moved up to pixel 139 . The cursor has moved left to pixel 324 etc ) . The computer then converts this into a visual display to show on your monitor .
A very fat person has a lot of fat to cut through to get to the major organs . All that fat has blood running through it , which means that once you cut it , it will bleed . This presents two problems , it increases risk of bleeding out and it can obscure the area the surgeon is fixing .
What is the Earth rotating and revolving around relative to ? Relative to the sun ? Yeah . Relative to us ? Not at all . Physicists found out a long time ago that we do n't really notice our speed unless our speed is changing ( That is to say we 're accelerating . ) If you get on a plane you 'll feel pressed into the back of the seat for take off , but once the plane has hit cruising speed everything seems the same as on the surface of the Earth despite going 1000km / hr . Why ? Because we 're also going 1000km / hr right along with it ! During takeoff we 're sitting still and the plane is speeding up , and so the plane moves forward and collides with our backs . The seat pushes against our backs and drags us along with the plane in acceleration . Once we 're at constant speed , though , there 's no push or pull by the plane , we 're just coasting along with it . The only thing the Earth does to us that 's acceleration is gravity , and we kind of do n't notice it simply because it 's always there , but you 'll certainly notice being upside down or put into space with 0 g conditions .
The editing was splicing and cutting actual film and of course the problem with working with film is that you ca n't see the footage as easily as you can today . All film reels had 12 minutes of footage . So when you popped a film reel into a camera you had 12 minutes of footage . When that ran out you popped in another film reel . Because of this Directors had to be super organized to make sure they did n't waste film because 35 mm film is really expensive . This is n't the case with new cameras as everything is digital and stored on card or hard drives . When they filmed a scene they could n't really see if the shot was good or not afterwards because it was film . The film had to be processed in order to view it . So after a weeks filming all the important people would go into a theater and watch all the " dailies " . That 's every scene shot from the week , they would pick out which scenes are good and which are n't . They would know from this which scenes were fuck ups and note it down to save time in editing . That 's why they have the clipper board at the beginning of every scene . The green screen was done by not using green screen because there were no computers but by actual people painting photo realistic
Another explanation I 've heard is similar to the explanation for why human women live past their reproductive age ; it 's evolutionarily useful to have grandparents around because they help raise the grandchildren even though they use resources . Same deal with homosexuals ; having a few people who are n't reproducing around helps take some of the excess load off of a population .
Reasons for no: In your first sentence you say something interesting: rates low - prices high. Actually those 2 are reversely correlated, imagine if rates would be 5% higher-very few people could buy at current prices so prices would drop. Also you need to keep in mind the rate of inflation that was much higher during some periods in the US history(for example over 10% in the 1980) so you can not make comparisons just based on the nominal interest rate. Putting all your eggs in one basket. If you think real estate is a good investment buy some REITs for 10k, do not spend 20% of your future income for 20 years. Maintenance - people who rent usually underestimate this or do not even count it when making rent vs mortgage comparisons. Reasons for yes: Lifestyle decision - you don't want to be kicked out of your house, you want to remodel... Speculation - I would recommend against this strongly, but housing prices go up and down, if they will go up you can make a lot of money. To answer one of questions directly: 1. My guess is that FED will try to keep rates well bellow 10% (even much lower, since government can not service debts if interest rates go much higher), but nobody can say if they will succeed.
As you probably know 0\*2 = 0\*1 is true Yet the following is false : 2 = 1 ( obviously ) So we can not go from the first equality to the second one . That 's basically because we can not divide by 0 ( or , in proper mathematical terms , 0 is not a regular element in the ring of real numbers ) .
The British Empire no longer really exists & to say that Canada is part of any Empire is inaccurate . The Commonwealth is a voluntary collection of countries that were once part of the Empire but which now have levels of autonomy up to and including full independence , which is an arrangement which seems to suit most , because few leave .
When you eat or drink something very cold , the temperature of the roof of your mouth drops . The roof of your mouth is very near your brain , so to prevent a drop in your brain 's temperature ( which is extremely important to its proper function ) , blood floods that area to warm it up , causing a brain freeze .
Say you need to let the dog outside to go potty . You could let him go outside for a long time , but then he 'll just spend most of it sniffing around and laying down instead of going potty . Then imagine only letting the dog outside for a minute at a time . He 'll be confused at first , but once he 's used to it , every time you let him outside he 'll go potty right away and then come back inside . The difference is you have to let him out more often and more regularly or he 'll piss on the xbox .
Electrical service developed independently in many places , at a time when crossing an ocean took several days . Even within the same country , it took years for standards to emerge . With few people bringing electrical appliances with them on international trips , there was little reason for countries to develop the same outlets . By the time travel became faster and more affordable , the standards were so entrenched that it was too late to change them .
Doing a fast experiment , I found that vowels are the only letters that does not involve tongue interaction or air expulsion from the throat , so I guess that 's why almost all words have a tendency of not vowel - vowel so we can switch between tongue interaction and non tongue interaction sounds to form good and understandable sounds , but I do n't really know xD
The whole idea of expansion is often ill - explained . What happens is the following : The Einstein field equations describe how the so - called metric depends on the distribution of energy in the universe ( remember that mad is energy , which is where the classical gravity we are familiar with comes from ) . The metric basically describes the shortest path between any two points in space , taking the effects of gravity into account . Now , as far as we currently know , our universe had something called the cosmological constant ( also known as dark energy ) and the result of toss cosmological constant is the same as if all of space has a constant energy density in it that is unequal to zero . effectively a vacuum has mass , although the actual value is tiny and if I recall correctly also negative . The consequence of this is that if you in irritably start with two points in an otherwise empty universe ( except for dark energy ) , and you some the metric as a function of time , you 'll see that the distance between those points increases at a rate proportional to the distance between the two . It is as if space itself has an anti gravity effect . of course one could interpret this as meaning that space is expanding , but since space itself is not an object , but rather a way of describing
TLS / SSL actually encompass two different types of encryption methods , asymmetric ( or public - key ) encryption and symmetric encryption . The " handshake " is the asymmetric encryption bit . Basically , we require a means for the client and server to exchange a shared secret in such a way as it is unreadable by other clients . This is enabled by public - key encryption . In this type of encryption two keys are generated , a public and a private key . The public key is , of course public , and presented to the client during the handshaking process . The public key is used to encrypt data , in this case , a shared secret . The private key , known only by the server , is used to decrypt the data . Now both the client and the server have the shared secret . This secret is then used to perform symmetric encryption ( the same key is used to be encrypt and decrypt the data ) usually in the form of a block cipher like 3DES or AES .
There 's a phase called the ' refractory period ' in which the human body can not reproduce an orgasm for a certain period of time after the initial orgasm . Getting more specific but bear with me : There 's a hormone called * * dopamine * * , ' the feel good chemicals ' that is released into your brain whenever you are stimulated whether through sex , or pornographic images . However , when you climax and orgasm other chemicals " * oxytocin and prolactin * " intervene and tells your brain to calm down because there 's simply so much dopamine being released at that time . That is the specific feeling you get after achieving an orgasm , your body 's trying to reduce the amount of stimulus that you 've given to your brain . * * Fun Fact * * : The brain releases so much dopamine during an orgasm , that on a brain scan it resembles that of someone who 's on herione . [ [ Source ] ( URL_0 ) ] Although remember , do n't do drugs !
You have a dollar bill and want to go buy candy in Switzerland . You change your dollar bill and get about one Swiss Franc , with which you can buy , say , ten pieces of Swiss candy . Yummy . Swiss kids can also come to the USA , change one Swiss Franc for one dollar , and buy ten pieces of American candy . All 's fine and dandy . If the Swiss Franc were a stronger currency , Swiss kids could get * two * dollars in return for one Swiss Franc , so they could go buy * twenty * pieces of candy in the US ( edit : they 'd still get 10 pieces of candy in their own country ) ! Awesome , right ? ! How could this be a bad thing ? Well , it 's because * you * would only get half a Swiss Franc in return for your dollar , and so you could only buy five pieces of candy in Switzerland . So you 'd probably go buy candy somewhere else . And the Swiss candy makers would be very sad , because nobody would want to buy their candy anymore .
Let's make a few assumptions: You have several ways of achieving (almost) that, in ascending complexity: Note that each alternative will have a cost which can be small (forwards, futures) or large (CFDs, debit) and the hedge will never be perfect, but you can get close. You will also need to decide whether you hedge the unrealised P&L on the position and at what frequency.
As a Venezuelan who used to buy USD, I believe there is not better explanation than the one given to someone who actually lives and works here in Venezuela. Back in 1998 when Hugo Chavez took the presidency, we had a good economy. Fast forward 10 years laters and you could see how poor management, corruption and communist measurements had wreaked havoc in our Economy. It was because most of the money (USD) coming in Venezuela were not invested here but instead, given away to "pimp countries" like Cuba. Remember, communism lasts while you have money. Back then we had an Oil Barrel going over 100$ and crazy amounts of money were coming in the country. However, little to no money was invested in the country itself. That is why some of the richest people with bank account in Swiss are Venezuelans who stole huge amounts of Oil Money. I know this is a lot to take in, but all of this led to Venezuelan economy being the worst in The American Continent and because there is not enough money inside the country to satisfy the inner market, people would pay overprice to have anything that is bought abroad. You have to consider that only a very small amount of people can actually buy USD here in Venezuela. Back in 2013 I was doing it, I could buy about 80 usd/month with my monthly income. However, nowdays that's nearly impossible for about 99% of Venezuelans. To Illustrate. Minimum wage =
Very simply , it works in a very similar way to how Google indexes web pages . Google index billions of websites , much like how Shazam indexes millions of songs , and it would be very time consuming and server heavy to take a full copy of all of the websites ( or songs ) . Instead , they index them , which means they make notes of the most important bits and then check them against your query . In websites this consists of headers , languages , body copy , etc . In music this is frequencies , pitch , etc . Another ( less technical ) analogy would be the index page of a book . It does n't necessarily hold all of the information but it has enough to point you towards the relevant bits .
Usually in medicine we refer to death rattle as the sound most humans make when they are close to death . They will breathe in and it sounds like a rattle due to their lungs filling with fluids . If they take that last breath of air before they die it would make the same sound if they had the rattle before death .
PSA , since we 've had to remove 80 % of the comments posted here so far : Jokes and serious comments about what a literal five year old would ask or understand are considered spam and [ are not permitted on this subreddit ] ( URL_0 ) . ELI5 is not a novelty subreddit . If you 're looking for that , try /r / explainlikeIAmA.
They know that we 'll eventually get distracted and allow it to happen , and then not punish anyone with voting them out . ELI5 answer is : We 're stupid and lazy as a group , and they know it and take advantage of it . They 're not in office for us , they 're in office first for themselves , seconds for their donators , and the public really does n't factor in . All they have to do is keep us from rioting or voting them out , while maximizing their personal benefit .
Deserts are ecosystems too ! We can cover large swathes of it with solar panels but destroying an entire ecosystem would be counterintuitive . We can also build on deserts and they are full of another kind of fuel , which would incur much less start - up costs . So all in all , bad idea . EDIT : my spelling is shite , sorry .
It 's not necessarily the process that is important , but the numbers . Most flowers have petal arrangements of numbers in the sequence , and by dividing a term in the sequence and its preceding term , you approach a value called phi(the golden ratio ) . Phi appears in some proportions of the body , and some people seem to find these proportions visually appealing . Artists such as Dali used these proportions in their paintings , and some insist that phi can be applied to things like stocks , without too much basis .
One of the jobs of the Federal Reserve it to help set monetary policy for the United States . One of the main ways it does this is by setting the Federal Fund Rate . This is an interest rate that banks pay each other for interbank loans , but more importantly , almost all other interests rates ( home loans , credit cards , etc ) , directly or indirectly , are related to this rate . The lower the interest rates , the easier it is to get a loan , which makes expansion ( personal or business ) easier , which generally increases growth . When the economy is going along good , the Fed raises interest rates , which slows things down a bit , and when it 's going poorly it drops interest rates to give things a boost . What it 's attempting to do is avoid boom / bust cycles ( which obviously it ca n't eliminate given we are still recovering from a giant economic bubble bursting ) , and provide steady continuous long term growth . In the wake of the housing bubble collapse , the Fed dropped interest rates from around 5.25 % to it 's current rate of 0.1 % . That 's literally almost nothing , and it means that the Fed ca n't continue to use decreases in interest rates to spurn on the economy . Given that the unemployment rate is still very high , and
There are way too many complicated explanations given . Here is a simple one . Hinduism believes that there is one and only one god and the god resides in you as much as it resides in your dog . ( Aham Brahmasmi . ) So , why are there so many gods to worship ? Think of it this way . I as a human being has a changing need given my circumstances . For example , I am poor and need money , pray for the money god ( Lakshmi ) , I need education , pray for Saraswati etc . The gods are nothing but the manifestation of the one god into the form which can fulfill my particular need . As such , Hinduism has idol worshipers , non - idol worshipers and even atheists ( Charvaka , Budhists , Jains etc ) . Although one could argue if Budhists and Jains are subsects of Hinduism or not . So , the bottom line is that as a Hindu you have the full freedom to practice the aspects that you like and discard the others . Hinduism , being such an old culture with no rigid boundaries had the opportunity to explore and diversify . I think it is a concept that will take a long time to get ones head around or get into it pretty quickly .
There are a lot of different explanations for why therapy helps different types of disorders . Its difficult to give a general answer to how therapy helps anxiety , bipolar or various personality disorders because they are different disorders , and may be explained and treated with different types of therapies . In general therapies with good outcomes are those that are characterized by a good ' therapeutic alliance ' between the patient and the therapist . Which means that you and your therapist are getting a long well , agreeing on what to work on in therapy and how to work on it . This usually includes the therapist showing warmth and being empathic . The patient 's contribution to therapy also predicts outcome , as well as other factors . In general therapy has been shown to be effective in treatment of a range of disorders . Your therapist may be able to give you a more specific answer :)
An ' accent ' is a complicated thing . It 's an easy concept , but what makes up an accent is n't - there are many individual speech patterns and behaviors that make a person 's speech sound a certain way . For example , pronunciation of words ; speaking rhythm , syllable stress , vowel pronunciations . The reason that singing ' washes out ' some of these differences is that music often gives specific instructions on * how * to a certain note should be sung - for instance , should it be heavily articulated or should it run into the next word ? Should it be mispronounced intentionally to rhyme with a prior line in the song ? Should the emphasis on syllables form a rhythmic pattern that is part of the song ? So song is really just a more tightly controlled and defined version of speech . The extra ' tightness ' means that there is less place for accent to be expressed .
I think the water example is probably the best one to use . Basic electrical circuits consist of * * Volts , Amps , Ohms and Watts . * * I 'll go over these in terms of water systems . * * Volts * * are potential energy or " pressure " . Imagine a garden hose that is just about to burst with pressure . This is like high voltage in a wire or cable . The electricity is trying so hard to push all of it 's water or " electrons " out of the hose . This is why you can touch a 12 volt battery , but not a 120 volt outlet . The 12volt battery is n't pushing very hard , so when you touch it , it does nt push many electrons through you . A 120 volt outlet , however , is pushing 10 times harder , so it can push 10 times more electrons through your body -- which you can feel(and it can hurt ) . Imagine touching a 13,800 volt wire -- or heaven forbid , 230,000 or 500,000 volts . ( It is worth noting that in the proper circumstance , a 120 volt shock CAN kill you -- if everything is ideal ) * * Amps * * are the amount of water or " electrons " that are flowing through the hose or " wire " . Think of it a bit like gallons per minute
Its just a very broad term that more or less means doing something illegal or immoral to obtain money . One of the most common is a protection racket . Lets say you own a shop , me and my gang walk up and say this area is dangerous , you should pay us to keep you safe . If you refuse we vandalize your shop .
The question is a bit vague . But I 'll give it a shot anyway . Many of the things that we deal with are countable objects . How many sheep are in my living room ? That can be represented by a simple positive integer number ( 0,1,2 , ... ) . But digital computers use binary logic ( on / off , 1/0 , high / low , etc . ) . So representing the numbers in base 10 ( decimal ) is n't so good for computers ; we need to convert them . So instead of using base 10 , where every digit is 10x the one to its right , instead every digit is 2x the one to its right . So the number you call " six " in normal decimal notation becomes 0110 - 0 eights , 1 four , 1 two , and 0 ones . Similarly , we can represent more complex numbers in binary formats ... negative numbers , scientific notation ( like 3.4 x 10 ^ 4 ) , etc . But some stuff is n't simply represented naturally by a discrete number . How do we represent ... a sound ? If you record a sound with a microphone , it will output an [ electrical signal that varies continuously with time ] ( URL_1 ) . But computers are n't so good at dealing with such " analog " signals . So we measure the waveform very
This is essentially a question of whether or not the universe is deterministic ; seeing as how that 's the root of the question , let 's not bother addressing how we measure all of the states of every ~10 ^ 90 particles in the universe , store them in a computer , and proceed with the calculation . The reason we ca n't do what you 're asking is that it 's impossible to accurately measure the physical traits of any object exactly . Not impossible technologically or physically for us , but literally impossible . Uncertainty is , uncomfortably , a fundamental characteristic of our universe . Particularly , subatomic particles behave in inherently uncertain ways . The root of the question can be answered purely with the uncertainty principle , which states that a particle 's exact position and momentum can not be known with certainty beyond a certain limit ; specifically , the product of the two can not be higher than half the reduced Planck constant . Instead , a particle 's behavior can be accurately described by a waveform ; a superposition of position and momentum , allowing neither to be calculated more precisely without increasing the uncertainty in the other . The uncertainty principle is a defining hallmark of quantum mechanics ; it describes not just our inability to measure momentum and position accurately , but the impossibility of ever making any measurement precisely defining those two traits . To quote Stephen Hawking
They measured it . If you have very precise equipment , it 's possible . The way they first tried to do it was by agreeing to shoot a pulse of light at a receiver that 's very far away at a certain time , and have someone else measure when the pulse got there . That did n't work very well , because they did n't have precise enough equipment . The first guy to somewhat accurately work it out did it by observing that the way that Jupiter 's moons caused an eclipse depended on how far the Earth was from Jupiter at the time . There 's a simple source [ here ] ( URL_2 ) that I 'm not going to bother paraphrasing . Nowadays , it 's actually really easy to measure yourself . All you need is a [ microwave and some marshmallows ] ( URL_1 ) . We also have tons of inexpensive equipment that 's more than precise enough to measure how long it takes light to travel some distance ( that 's how a cop 's speed radar gun works ) . As for calculating it ... well , a physicist named Maxwell was the first to truly explain what light is . He realized that the speed of light was related to another physical constant called the [ vacuum permittivity ] ( URL_0 ) , which is used in electromagnetics . However , what he really did was demonstrate that
Coax can carry more bandwidth ( as in frequency spectrum ) . RG-6 coax can carry somewhere 1 - 3Ghz while Cat 6 Ethernet ( 8 wires ) can only carry about 500 Mhz . The reason is the shielding is so good and the impedance of the RG-6 coax cable is guaranteed over a long distance . HD TV channels only need 6Mhz so a single RG 6 can carry roughly 166 channels simultaneously without switching .
You may have heard that electricity and magnetism are the " same thing . " What that essentially means is that they both have to do with the way that charged objects like electrons behave . An electric current is the flow of electrons through a wire . When current flows through a wire , something called [ Faraday 's Law ] ( URL_0 ) causes a magnetic field to form around the wire . It 's hard to explain why that happens , so just take my word for it . Anyway , when I say " magnetic field , " I mean something that acts very similar to the magnets you 're used to , like the ones on your fridge . In fact , if you run a current through a wire that 's curled around in a circle , it acts almost exactly like a bar magnet . So , since magnets push other magnets , you can exploit the fact that wires with current through them act like magnets to induce motion . In fact , you can make an [ extremely simple motor ] ( URL_1 ) with just a bunch of copper wire , a battery , and a magnet . * Real motors use the same basic principle , but have much more involved and efficient designs . The point is that electric currents make magnetic fields , which you can exploit to make things move . By the way , changing
> It ’s not like the area spontaneously combusts , do n’t people have ample time to get to safety ? It sort of does spontaneously combust . Imagine a wall of flame approaching at 50 + mph and winds carrying embers which are dropping around you . Each of those might start their own fires in any direction , blocking your movement and vision . Look around your house , how far can you see ? Probably not more than a mile or two at most . Once you can see fire you are probably out of time .
Sexually he has incredible control over his erections and orgasms . Porn films need guys who can get it up on demand any time all day every day . Ron Jeremy can pop a boner faster than you can snap your fingers . He also can control when he ' pops ' , which is another useful skill because the director wants to be able to capture that moment on film from the right angle . He used to be attractive , and now he 's well - liked BECAUSE he 's so homely . It gives dudes hope that they , too , might be able to plow 19 - year - old hotties while looking like a truck driver .
The answer depends on the Economic school you follow . Here are some explanations according to different schools . I would like to point out that all of these are going to be oversimplified for the sake of ELI5 . * * Keynesian * * Keynesians believe that spending is crucially important in the short term for an economy . If people instead save , invest or pay off debt that 's fine in the long run but in the short run it has negative consequences for the economy . Changes in short term spending , up or down , also are self reinforcing : if spending goes up that will cause spending to go up a bit more , if spending goes down that will cause it to go down even more . One final thing Keynesians believe is that prices ( particularly wages ) are sticky . This means that instead of people 's wages adjusting instantly to what is optimal , it takes a while for them to change . If wages need to go down , they will take a while to do so and in the mean time you will have unemployment because wages are higher than what is affordable . So how does this relate to the Depression ? Well the first is the Depression started with a big stock market crash . 89 % of value was lost according to /u/-Knul . The first effect is for a business this is like losing
There are two main types of doughs used for bread , lean and rich ( or enriched ) dough . Lean dough contains flour , water , salt , and yeast usually . This would be your traditional baguette or crusty roll . Enriched doughs have some form of fat and usually eggs and dairy in them , maybe sugar . This would be a foccacia , parker rolls , etc . The fat in those doughs help maintain the moisture for longer periods , at the cost of keeping a crust . The lack of fat in lean doughs helps form a traditional baguette crust , but there is no fat to help maintain moisture as water evaporates . Source : I 'm a culinary student who finished my baking class 2 weeks ago . So while I might not know the science , I know that this is the theory behind why that happens from a baker 's point of view .
Cuban communism is unique . There is free education and health care . But no one was told what to study . So doctors and nurses chose their vocation . Private enterprise in some form is being permitted . So some doctors now drive taxi type cars for the tourists for the money . Cuba actually has three kinds of currency . It is amazing .
Because downtown is more convenient . They can ask for money , find food , and more things to do in general . I did the hitchhiking thing for awhile and hung out with lots of homeless people . While sleeping out on the Promenade in Santa Monica one night this homeless guy showed me his secret hiding spot for sleeping materials , and which dumpsters were best for clothing , food , etc , ha .
Yes you can lose money on an mutual fund . A mutual fund is a collection of stocks managed by a person or group . You buy into the fund to spread risk . If the stocks in the fund lose value , you lose money . Until it hopefully increases in value . A savings account gives you interest and is guaranteed not to lose numerical value . However you 're losing real world value since inflation means that what $ 100 can buy you today will cost you $ 103 in a year . But savings accounts will only give you 0.05 % interest . So you 're losing money every year you keep money in a savings account
In the US , the frequencies that radio stations are allowed to use are designated by the FCC ( Federal Communications Commission ) . The FCC limits FM broadcasts to the range from 87.1 MHz to 108.0 MHz . This is because frequencies outside of that range are designated to be used for other purposes . For example , the spectrum immediately below 87.1 is used for broadcasting TV channels 5 and 6 , and the spectrum immediately above 108.0 is used for aeronautical radio and navigation . [ Here 's a giant PDF ] ( URL_0 ) that shows a chart of all the spectrum allocations in the US .
GPUs are not faster than CPUs . They 're faster at certain specific tasks , mostly ... processing graphics , unsurprisingly . Basically , graphics cards are good at doing a huge number ( hundreds or even thousands ) of simple things all at once . CPUs are good at doing a small number of extremely complex tasks very quickly . The question , really , is whether a task is * parallel * or * sequential * . Can you split the task into a large number of smaller operations that can be performed simultaneously ? Okay , you probably want to use a GPU . Does the task require that you do a lot of things in a specific order ? You want to use a CPU . Most things that a computer needs to do are sequential . Like , the * overwhelming * majority of things . Most of us have multiple - core CPUs , which can do parallel tasks , and most of us barely use the extra cores because most things have to be done sequentially . edit : I should also add that a graphics card is n't really a GPU , either . A graphics card is basically a computer inside your computer that does graphics . It has memory , it has a processor , it has a " motherboard , " all that stuff .
1 . Everyone uses them . 2 . They sell them for a lot . 3 . They can keep them for a while if they do n't sell . People do n't buy mattresses very often but a mattress company can sell them for over a thousand dollars each . Unsold mattresses alo keep their value very well . A mattress that no one has bought for a few years can still be sold at the same price . And eventually everyone will buy a mattress or two .
You can kind of think of it as computerized legos . Minecraft has two main forms of play : Survival and creative . Creative is the easiest to explain-- you have unlimited block materials of all sorts of colors and textures , as well as electrical components ( Wire , levers , push blocks ) , interactive pieces ( Doors , railroads ) , and transportation sets ( Boats , railcars ) . You also have the ability to fly ( As in , you can go wherever you want , place whatever you want ) . It 's in this mode you see creations such as [ a full 1 - 1 scale representation of Azeroth ] ( URL_2 ) , and all sorts of remakings of our favorite video games characters such as [ Sonic ] ( URL_0 ) . Survival is the exact same game , except you start out with nothing and everything you use , you have to mine or craft . I could delve into the mass , mass amount of things you can craft using the eleven or so simple , mineable materials , but I 'll let [ this ] ( URL_1 ) do the talking for me . In survival , you also have life and hunger you have to worry about , as well as a slew of monsters . It 's really hard to explain what Minecraft is * about * because there are SO many things you can
I do n't know if there 's an official reason , but I suspect it 's a holdover from our romance language roots which ascribe genders to everything . For example , almost every noun in French is preceded by le ( male ) , or la ( female ) , even though things like ships ( le navire ) and potatoes ( la pomme de terre ) have no gender . edit : I do n't care about karma , but whythe hell is this getting downvoted ? Sure , my answer is speculative , but so is every other top level response in this thread . AFAIK , there is n't a known / confirmed reason for this phenomenon , so speculation is all we have , and and at least my reply does n't hinge on some bullshit about being in the womb .
It indicates that there 's not enough oversight over the meat . It 's horsemeat . Where did it come from ? What country ? What farm ? Is it safe ? Has it even been * checked * if it 's safe ? It 'd be like if you ordered a Toshiba desktop computer online but got an Acer instead . The Acer may work just as well , but if they ca n't even get the brand right , how do you know they got the internal hardware ? You do n't have very high confidence .
There are four different types of blood types . A , B , AB and O. Each can be negative or positive . A can not mix with B , and B can not mix with A. O is the ' Universal Donner ' , anyone can take O blood . Blood Type is a classification for some of the proteins ( antigens ) found on the red blood cells our bodies make . People who have " type A " blood also produce " Type A " antigens AND produce " Anti blood type B " antibodies . Same goes for someone who has blood " type B " . They produce " Type B " antigens and produce " Anti blood type A " antibodies . When a person receives the ' wrong blood type'what is happening is that the persons own " Anti blood type antibodies " are attacking the new red blood cells because the new red blood cells have the protein saying they are " A " or they are " B " all over them . People who have blood type " AB " make BOTH antigen proteins on their red blood cells and they do nt produce either of the ' anti blood type antibodies ' . Since there are no antibodies there is nothing to fight with the red blood cells protein markers ( aka antigens ) so they do not have a bad reaction . They can get blood from anyone
Because that 's not how much they get paid . The get $ 1 a year in * * salary * * . He also gets a few * * million * * a year in bonuses , stock incentives , dividends and other such payments . Trust me , he 's got plenty of money . The $ 1 is basically so he can still be the CEO since its illegal to pay someone $ 0 ( since that 's slavery ) .
Congratulations on deciding to save money and choosing to invest it. One thing to know about mutual funds including index funds is that they typically require a minimum investment of a few thousand dollars, $3000 being a typical amount, unless the investment is in an IRA in which case $1000 might be a minimum. In some cases, automated monthly investments of $50 or $100 might need to be set up if you are beginning with a small balance. There is nothing wrong with your approach. You now should go and look at the various requirements for specific index funds. The Fidelity and Vanguard families are good choices and both offer very low-cost index funds to choose from, but different funds can have different requirements regarding minimum investments etc. You also have a choice of which index you want to follow, the S&P 500 Index, MidCap Indexes, Small-Cap Indexes, Total Stock Market Indexes etc., but your choice might be limited until you have more money to invest because of minimum investment rules etc. Most important, after you have made your choice, I urge you to not look every day, or even every month, to see how your investment is doing. You will save yourself a lot of anxiety and will save yourself from making wrong decisions. Far too many investors ignore the maxim "Buy Low, Sell High" and pull money out of what should be long-term investments at the first flicker of a downturn and end up buying high and selling
Nothing 's unhackable , but the idea is that it allows you to make more complex passwords for all the websites you use and have a secure place to put them , rather than something insecure like having a word doc with your passwords or writing them down on a piece of paper . Otherwise people tend to either re - use passwords across multiple sites or use very simple passwords . Password managers basically only require you to remember ONE password ( preferably also complex ) so that all your other ones can be a bunch of nonsense
The area of your brain that perceives different colors is called area V8 , and it organizes during infancy , and then does not change . So , given the circumstances you describe ( the person is exposed to enough of the environment in infancy to experience colors and then later is put into a black box ) , the person would still remember colors . There are people who forget what colors are like , but this is always due to brain damage . The condition is known as Achromatopsia and it is when someone has damage to area V8 in their brain and , as a result , can no longer see colors . Additionally , they can not even imagine colors even though before their damage , they saw color correctly .
Jackson really fucked up the eagles , so here we go : 1 . The Eagles are n't his pets , they are sentient beings with their own society and government . Gandalf once saved an Eagle king , so they owe him . 2 . The Eagles , even with them owing Gandalf favors , are n't willing to fly people into * incredibly dangerous places * like , say , Middle Earth 's center of evil . 3 . The Eagles really do n't give a fuck about most of the world . They will literally fly away if the world is being destroyed , which they actually did before .
I 'll take a stab . ~~Melatonin~~ Melanin is the chemical that gives our skin and hair its dark color . The more of it you have , the darker you are . It functions as a natural sunscreen , if you will , protecting us from harmful UV rays . This is generally why people around the equator are naturally dark . If you look at where Europeans / White people come from , they tend to be situated further away . Since the sun is not as harsh , mutations like light hair and skin are less likely to die out and over time have even managed to flourish . Shapes I ca n't explain ? Edit : Shit I 'm so sorry I mean Melanin and not Melatonin . I ALWAYS mix those two up . * * Bonus * * [ Article ] ( URL_0 ) from the National Institute of Health . I promise I was n't completely talking out of my ass .
If it 's actually being used as a gift , than it 's at least a bit more personal than just plain cash . If nothing else , it says " I might not know what you want , but I know where you 'd buy it from ! " . It 's all in the gesture . As for the gift cards themselves ? Eh ; it 's quick . You do n't have to deal with change , or worry if you have to break any bills . If it 's someplace you go a lot and you can have more money put onto it ( think of a coffee place ) , than it can be pretty convenient and a bit of a time saver .
a hard drive is like a desk . if you get mail , you might keep bills and shit in one drawer but they 're currently all over your desk . defragmenting organizes your desk . it puts the mail together in its own desk , except on a computer , one piece of mail might be spread all over the place . one piece of mail was ripped in two and the envelope is somewhere else on the desk . defraging helps mend any disorganization on your drive and generally leads to faster performance . and files are fragmented as they are modified . if you think about how a disk works , the write arm will be at a specific spot at any given moment but has to capture the modification , so it writes it down . defraging puts a file and all of its attributes ( modifications ) together
We definitely are . Even if it 's passive and entirely unconscious ; for millions of years Homo sapiens and their ancestors have been actively seeking mates with more appealing traits . That 's not a hard " coding " per se , but definitely the " Yes I 'd fuck him " or " nah he 's gross " is the real life equivalent of a For - Loop 's " If attractive : fuck him " " Elif : flirt and make him jerk . "
Taken from URL_0 " In the upper left - hand corner is an easily recognized drawing of the phonograph record and the stylus carried with it . The stylus is in the correct position to play the record from the beginning . Written around it in binary arithmetic is the correct time of one rotation of the record , 3.6 seconds , expressed in time units of 0,70 billionths of a second , the time period associated with a fundamental transition of the hydrogen atom . The drawing indicates that the record should be played from the outside in . Below this drawing is a side view of the record and stylus , with a binary number giving the time to play one side of the record - about an hour . " The information in the upper right - hand portion of the cover is designed to show how pictures are to be constructed from the recorded signals . The top drawing shows the typical signal that occurs at the start of a picture . The picture is made from this signal , which traces the picture as a series of vertical lines , similar to ordinary television ( in which the picture is a series of horizontal lines ) . Picture lines 1 , 2 and 3 are noted in binary numbers , and the duration of one of the " picture lines , " about 8 milliseconds , is noted . The drawing immediately below shows how
There are a few major differences - Typically a mutual fund is actively managed which results in larger fees than an ETF which is a passive instrument designed to track a benchmark ( say S & P 500 ) . You are paying a money manager to try to " underweight " or " overweight " the stocks he or she thinks will under / over perform in the applicable index . An ETF is simply designed to track the index , without a manager actively trying to generate alpha ( returns that exceed the benchmark return ) . Next is on tax efficiency - When you go to sell an ETF , since it is exchange traded , it 's basically like selling a stock . There are prices quoted throughout the day and you can sell it at any time for the quoted price . You can also sell ETF 's short , which you can not do with a mutual fund . ETF 's have " in kind " redemption which means that when you sell your shares , behind the scenes the basket of securities that comprise the ETF unit are exchanged to satisfy the sale . This differs from a mutual fund where when you place a sell the fund most sell underlying shares on the open market , resulting in a capital gains tax , that ultimately will flow through to the unitholders . Along the same lines , mutual funds have a larger
This may or may not be abnormal , depending upon your cousin 's ethnicity ; for causcasians under 20 , or African Americans under 30 , the appearance of silver hair is categorized as " premature graying , " caused by a loss of two pigments ( i.e. eumelanin and pheomalanin ) . Graying does not typically indicate a medical problem , and is most likely from genetic causes . Vitamin B-12 deficiency and issues with pituitary or thyroid glands can cause premature graying .
Gravity does not come solely from mass . That may be what Newton thought , but as it turns out , it comes mostly from energy , and matter is a type of energy . Light is not matter . But it * is * energy , so it is affected by gravity . When body A orbits body B at a particular height , A must circle B at the correct speed to stay in that orbit . Lower orbits are faster orbits , and vice versa . With black holes , there is a particular height(called the Event Horizon ) at which the orbital velocity is the speed of light . If anything is closer to the black hole than that height , it can not orbit , and will inevitably spiral to the center .
There is always some small amount of sweat glands that are active , even if you are not hot or moving around . This creates a tiny amount of sweat on your body and because sweat is made up of mainly water , which has a high heat capacity ( the amount of heat that something can absorb before it changes temperature ) , some heat from your body will be transfered into the water of your sweat . Then sweat does what it does best . The small amount of liquid evaporates off of your skin , taking some of your body heat with it . This lowers the amount of heat in your body , effectively cooling you down . But its not only sweat . Your body is always radiating heat because your a warm blooded animal . The heat from deep inside your body is usually carried by your blood to the skin , where it can be radiated out . Then the cooler air outside absorbs some of the heat and blows away with it , lowering the heat on your skin therefore making you feel colder . [ This ] ( URL_0 ) animation shows quick and dirty what happens .
There is no universal standard , but the [ Human Development Index ] ( URL_0 ) is probably as close as it gets . Even so , there is rarely a single line in the sand that constitutes " developed . " Many international organizations , such as the IMF , keep their own lists of which states are considered " developing " .
The data of the games ( program , levels , whatever ) was encoded into different sounds in a range that could be recorded on normal audio cassettes . Depending on the effort you put in the coding ( and decoding ) this could be just two different tones for " bit=0 " and " bit=1 " or more bits per tone ( think different notes , or even accords ) . Reading and writing was a strictly linear operation in most cases : you wind the tape ( manually or in some cases controlled by the computer ) to the start of your data ( e.g. by using the mechanical tape counter ) and pressed " Start " , while pushing a button on the computer . Took ages to read or write a few kB. Floppy disks are ( were ) essentially the same , only in disk form and therefor randomly accessible , so you did not have to wait as long to find the correct position of your data . [ Detailed explanation on Wikipedia ] ( URL_0 )
Hello and Welcome to ‘Ask A Doctor’ service.I have reviewed your query and here is my advice.Several features of pain can be helpful in clarifying what is going on and the next steps for diagnosis and treatment.Type of pain: Burning mostly means a nerve is having problems. This can be either a sick nerve or a nerve that has had an injury. Electrical, shooting would be others implying nerve source for pain.Location of pain: There is a lot to this. First, if something goes in the pathway of a nerve, then that is the nerve involved. Nerves are long and the pain is in a belt-like long pathway. Smaller areas are smaller nerves. This also tends to say what might be going on. Obviously if there was an injury to the area and then there was pain outward from it "hit a nerve" would be a possibility. Sick nerves are multiple areas and tend to be the TIPS of the nerve not the whole nerve.What hurts: Moving a particular way that triggers the pain tells what is hurting. Specifically it can distinguish outward structures like skin, muscles, tendons, joints from deep structures like organs and nerves.There is the pain. There is the context of it. If it is getting less that is perceived as good regardless of the pain. If the patient is making a lot of pain, then after the patient, the pain is less.Pain exists, at multiple levels of abstraction. There is how it is held. Producing the
FBI : responsible for enforcing federal laws ( and any crime that crosses state lines -- the FBI was originally created because originally , local police forces can only operate within a state , criminals can literally escape justice by crossing a state border ) in the US . They also deal with antiterrorism within the US . CIA : responsible for gathering human intelligence ( i.e. spies , informants , anything involving computers and satellites is under the preview of the NSA ) in other countries , the CIA is not allowed to operate within US territory . Both are executive agencies and are thus funded directly by the federal government
I used to row and I 'll tell you that I suspect a lot of it is down to the difficulty of the required technique . If you 're not doing it properly ( and there are a lot of things to think about ) , you will get a subpar workout and could potentially injure yourself . Also , without technique , the motion tends to feel very odd . Therefore , because there are n't nearly as many rowers as there are runners , it makes sense for gyms to provide machines that people know how to use because it means that the gym does n't need to have someone on staff to demonstrate how to erg ( indoor rowing ) . I suspect it 's also good from a legal standpoint because people are less likely to injure themselves and try to sue or something like that . That said , if you take the time to learn how to do it properly , it really is a great workout for your legs , back , and arms . The only problem is that seat is uncomfortable for some people and it may cause irritation after a while .
There are a few things that limit apples gaming potential . 1 ) Apple OS is not supported by most games . So a lot of games , especially new games , wo n't work at all on a Mac . 2 ) Power vs. Quality - we can debate all day about the quality of a apple computer . What can be said is that dollar for dollar , a Mac is nothing compared to a PC in terms of raw power . For the price of a decent Mac $ 1500 - $ 2500 , you can build a PC with 2 - 3 times to raw power of that Mac . 3 ) Control - a PC power user has a lot more control over their machine on windows or Linux than does that same person on a Mac . This includes both over the hardware and over the software running the machine . When gaming , more control is always better .
EDIT : Flipped W / K and East / West for some reason . Thanks u / Sjsoektbbfjfkd ! By around 1910 the use of radio in the USA was becoming common enough that Congress passed its first laws to regulate its use . Tellingly , this was the " Wireless Ship Act of 1910 , " as naval communications was the most critical purpose of radio technology , and the primary purpose of this act was to require ships of certain size to have wireless sets for emergency and other operational purposes . The Radio Act of 1912 ( a response to the sinking of the Titanic ) bolstered the above law , and began the practice of licensing individual transmitters , assigning individuals or companies responsibilities based on that license , limiting frequencies and power levels and other technical aspects , and assigning unique call signs . But what should a call sign look like ? Well , a series of international commissions on radio ( referred to at the time as " International Radiotelegraphic Conferences " ) developed an international system of call signs , granting each nation a block of them . The standard at the time was usually 3 letters , A - Z - a total of 17,576 possible stations , although longer call signs existed ( or would shortly ) . The USA had already been using call signs starting with N ( common starting letter for US Navy stations ) , so
The ocean is a harder location for us to visit . For one , visibility . In space we can see so much because it 's empty and void . We have the Hubble Telescope that can see lightyears away , because there 's nothing blocking it unless the aim is meant that way . In the ocean we have water , a somewhat dense liquid that obstructs light and vision . This can be viewed when looking into a pool , or a lake . It 's darker , dirtier , and distorts light and vision . Viewing the ocean is a harder task in that submarines can only view so much of it . There 's also pressure . In space it 's usually constant depending on speed and where you are in orbit . In the ocean , the deeper you go the denser it gets , and therefore you need stronger and larger submarines or equipment . At that point you 're looking at some nuclear powered submarine that probably is n't designed to survey the floor . We 've been able to map out the depth of the ocean and all the seismic activity , but it 's difficult to actually be there and grab artifacts and experience it . tldr ; ocean is too pressurized and deep and dirty and you 'd have to have the toughest equipment to view a lot of it .
It 's pretty easy to make a sugarless soda : for every liter , you take out a hundred grams of sugar , and put in half a gram\ * of aspartame . You might have to tweak the recipe a little bit to get the taste right . \ * I 'm not sure about the exact amount of artificial sweetener they use . But you ca n't do that with candies like gummy bears , because they do n't just contain sugar , they 're * made of * sugar- sugar and some minor ingredients that determine the exact texture and structure- gummy bears use gelatin , swedish fish use pectin , hard candies are pretty much pure sugar . If you take out the sugar , you have nothing left but a pool of gel . So what they do instead is use a whole lot of slightly - modified sugar , which has most of the same properties as white sugar , except your intestines do n't absorb it well ( really , sugar - free means free - from - sugar - that - will - make - its - way - into - your - blood ) . Some modified sugars are sweet , others are n't , so depending on which you use , you might have to add some extra artificial sweetener . But the point is , once you eat those sugar - free candies , that un - absorb -
Filipino here . Our language is based on Spanish and English due to us being colonies of both . Our language is particularly easy to learn since we also use the English alphabet . Our language is pronounced as it is spelled and it 's rare you ever find a ' c ' , ' f ' , ' v ' and a couple other letters in our words . Grammar nazis are kept busy with the amount of affixes we can put in one word and they all mean something different . For example : kain ( eat ) * kinain ( ate , transitive , with intention ) * kumakain(eating ) * kumain ( ate , intransitive ) * kakain ( will eat , intransitive ) * kakainin ( will eat , transitive ) * kainan ( place where you eat ) * kainin ( thing you will eat ) * nakain ( accidentally , unintentional ) A lot of others , but we see how much a letter or two changes words . Also , we have words which when pronounced differently ( yet they are spelled the same ) will change the meaning * puno ( full and tree ) * kawayan ( bamboo and exchange of hand - waving ) * mahal ( love and expensive
A monolithic kernel runs the operating in " kernel space " , a privileged position , and defines all the virtual interfaces over the hardware . When you write a program , you do n't tell the hard drive to open a particular file , let alone how to do it - file - open is an abstraction provided by the OS , whether it 's a hard drive , CD drive , or other device . A microkernel is very small by comparison , and handles few essential services like memory management , and has few generic interfaces which drivers and protocol stacks can interact with . Drivers and protocol stacks are n't run in privileged as the kernel itself is , they 're ran in user space , which has a different set of permissions and access control over the system , dictated by the kernel . User space has to cross logical barriers and get permission to do certain elevated tasks . Monolithic kernels have kernel space vs. user space , too , it 's just with the micro kernel , more is in user space . The advantage is anything in user space can crash or get dumped and replaced without taking down the whole system . In a monolithic kernel , if there is a bug in the file system code , it effects the whole system . Exo kernels are also an exciting branch of kernel design - these perform one role , multiplex
We went to the moon initially as a strategy for the US to have a show of technological , military , and political strength to the globe . To counter a perception of Soviet supremacy . After Kennedy 's assassination , the plan became more as a legacy to the late president , but the initial intentions were still relevant . Once we established that the US could return multiple flights from the lunar surface , it stopped being a valuable program to demonstrate US superiority . When you win the war , you dismantle the war fleet and send the soldiers home . You do n't keep fighting expensive battles .
Do you mean [ rubbing your face in general , ] ( URL_0 ) or [ rubbing around the eyes ? ] ( URL_2 ) The second one is doing a multitude of things , such as clearing mucous from your eyes , moving the set mucous membranes , and very importantly , stimulating the [ lacrimal gland ] ( URL_1 ) to secrete its lubricant . From Junqueira 's Basic Histology : > The lacrimal glands produce fluid continuously for the tear film that moistens and lubricates the cornea and conjunctiva and supplies O2 to the corneal epithelial cells . Tear fluid also contains various metabolites , electrolytes , and proteins of innate immunity such as lysozyme . The main lacrimal glands are located in the upper temporal portion of the orbit and have several lobes that drain through individual excretory ducts into the superior fornix , the conjunctiva - lined recess between the eyelids and the eye . If you 're just playing with your face , I do n't really know what you 're doing . Just realized which Subreddit I 'm in , so ETA ... * * ELI5 : You rub it to make it wet . * *
On most live broadcasts the CC comes from two sources . They can be typed in live by a person like a stenographer or the scripts that are being used can feed the CC . Often times there is a combination of the two . There are actually companies that specialize in doing live CC . They listen to the show over telephone / internet and the typed information is fed back to the TV station and inserted into their broadcast signal . I know that some TV stations in Utah use a service that is located in Colorado . By the way , most live TV is not on a delay with a kill switch . Its just too complicated to do things that way . If it 's a call - in show or something with a lot of audience participation they might delay the signal , but it is rare . Usually we just take our chances . There is a delay that is caused by all the signal processing ( the cc for example ) , but that builds up after the signal leaves the control room . so it does n't help with censorship .
Much the same reason wine is served in different glasses . Glass shape and size changes how aromas are presented to your nose . Smell is a huge part in the taste of things . Hops is very aromatic and the type of beer has different volatile compounds from the type of yeast used in fermentation that affect the flavor and smell .
Probably not . Modern vending machines identify your coin by its size , edge shape and the faces . There is a laser that reads the coin as it goes by and determines if it is real and either accepts it or gives it back . I recently had a quarter that the machine would n't take . The Pepsi guy was stocking the machine next to it so I asked if he would trade me quarters . Turned out mine was an old true silver quarter and the machines do n't take those anymore . So it can even tell the difference between silver and nickel quarters . The guy gave me back my silver coin and spotted me a quarter .
I 'm basically summarizing my homeboy * * Neil DeGrasse Tyson * * , /u / neiltyson , my favorite astrophysicist here : All matter has gravity . The amount of matter determines the amount of gravity . Our planet earth is the biggest source of matter you are familiar with , so you feel / are aware of its gravity in your day to day life . Additionally , the moon is a big source of matter , and thus , gravity . You experience its gravity effects with the coming and the going of the tides . Scientists , have instruments to measure / estimate within reason both the amounts of matter , as well as gravitational forces in our galaxy . Where dark matter comes into play is , there is a disproportionate amount of gravitational force in the universe , far exceeding the proportionate levels of matter . There seems to be missing matter in the universe that we can not see or measure . This is missing matter , or * * dark matter . * * * * tl;dr : Universe has known levels of both matter and gravity . According to advanced physics , there should be a corresponding ratio to matter and gravity . Gravity far exceeds the known matter in the universe . This missing matter is coined ' dark matter . ' * * Matter we can measure , dark matter exhibits its gravity on us without a known source
The piano works by pointing the right joycon into the body of the box and pushing a key changes what the IR camera views ( I 'm guessing it lifts small paddles on the inside via lever motion ) . The camera can detect basic shapes easily and determine distance of objects so that must play into how it works too . The software the kit comes with interprets what the camera sees and outputs the corresponding notes . The robot vr backpack looks like it uses the gyrometers ( things that can sense motion ) of the left joycon headset piece to determine view while it uses the other gyrometers on the right joycon to detect when your ducking . It then uses the ir camera again , to look at the position of markers inside the backpack controlled by pulleys , rubber bands and string . When you pull the strings it pulls on the tab with the marker on the inside up , and the camera can see that info to tell which arm your moving . The rc car works like a hexbug nano but has dual drive lol the way the legs are shaped , the vibration makes it move forward incrementally . If only one side rumbles , it turns to ~~that~~ * the other * side . * * TLDR * * : This is really a kit for creating non electric peripherals that mechanically give info to the gyros and IR camera
Hi...by what you say I feel that your son is having recurrent viral illness. I will explain you how a viral illness behaves so that you can be more confident.Fever of few days without any localizing signs could as well a viral illness. Usually rather than fever, what is more important is the activity of the child, in between 2 fever episodes on the same day.If the kid is active and playing around when there is no fever, it is probably viral illness.Once viral fever comes it will there for 4-7 days. So do not worry about duration if the kid is active.Regards - Dr. Sumanth
If you want some coffee that tastes like it smells then buy a batch of a very good quality coffee - Jamaica Blue Mountain is one of my favourites , but Hawaiian Kona and Kopi Luwak are also good ( the latter is probably considered the best ) . JBM has an incredibly smooth flavour with very little bitterness . KL beans are eaten and pooped out by civet cats . The acids in their intestinal tract remove loads of acidity from the beans , which are then harvested , thoroughly washed , roasted and sold . If you can get past the fact that you 're drinking " cat - poo coffee " then you 'll probably find that the best cup of joe you 've ever had . Would definitely recommend JBM though - it 's not prohibitively expensive as a treat every now and again and it tastes incredibly good ! My preferred way of making it is in a French press as I like the body , but you may enjoy it as a filter brew .
The universe is not expanding into anything . The current accepted position is that the universe is infinite in size , and the expansion is caused by distances within the universe increasing . Kind of like an infinitely long ruler that is stretching . It never gets any longer ( since it 's already infinitely long ) , but the distance between markings increases over time .
Multiple life sentences are given to keep people in prison even if they manage to get other sentences over turned . For example you kill someone and site their car get a life sentence and 20 years , but you find a good lawyer that finds a technicality and gets you off of that life sentence , now you 're just serving 20 years .
Most of the oxygen is generated by a life support system which splits water into oxygen and hydrogen gas as well as removes carbon dioxide . The machine which does this is called the Elektron . It uses around 1 liter of water a day for each crew member . They also use many back up systems in case this one fails such as full canisters of oxygen . Seeing as the water used is not very much , it is resupplied every few months as far as I know .
In the Thomas universe , trains are like very smart horses ( think something like Sven in Frozen , but more . ) Just like you 'd encourage your horse , despite there being a rider , you 'd certainly be even more direct with a horse that spoke and understood English . Given that situation , the engineer still does a job , but it does n't take away from the train having a will of it 's own . or , as this guy on quora put it : > Christian Roden , English major . > Written 21 Mar 2012 > Well , according to the books , the engineers serve the same function as they do in real life . The Thomas and his friends can not function unless they have a proper fire and sufficient steam pressure , and they normally can not run unless the engineer guides them ( though I will admit , the autonomy of the engines was * greatly * increased in the television series ... and I 'm still not sure I agree with that choice ) . > Most of their adventures , in fact , occur when they are going about their daily tasks ( transporting passengers , shunting cars , etc . ) , while their accidents tend to happen when the engineer forgets to properly secure the brake , or somehow loses control . That 's why Thomas is as surprised as everyone else when he
No , the President is not ultimately powerless . The idea of checks and balances is that power is divided so that each branch of government is pitted against each other . For example , Congress writes the laws , but the President can veto them . The President can carry out and interpret the laws , but only in the context of what Congress lets him . The President is the Commander in Chief of the military , but only Congress can fund military operations or declare war . The President appoints judges , but the Senate has to approve and the judges then serve for life with the power to determine what laws are constitutional or not , so they do n't have to bend to the President 's will . The ultimate idea is that the branches are designed to fight each other , meaning that only something good ultimately survives because it survived all the checks and balances .
From a " liberal " point of view ... Fox News has TV SHOWS dressed up as actual News programs in which the hosts of the shows " report " their own opinions and countless of viewers mistake these opinions as actual journalism . The entire channel is run by extreme conservatives ( people with traditional views about religion ( mainly Christianity ) , morals , guns , having less government regulation , anti - abortion , anti helping poor people , anti - change ) . --I'm sure some will argue my definition of conservatives but , eh fuck it . While other channels were simply reporting President Obama 's last election win live , as it was officially announced , Fox News reporters acted as if the world just ended ( the background music got mysteriously gloomy , if I remember correctly ) . They represent a certain group of people and they have no qualms about letting it be known . Other news channels do the same for other groups such as liberals , but Fox does it to an extreme . They report whatever makes conservatives and ultimately Republicans look good ( THEY WORSHIPED GEORGE BUSH ) and bash on liberal and democratic and often simply rational viewpoints all day long . There 's a documentary on Netflix about Fox News . Ex - employees of the organization weigh in on the terribleness that occurs at Fox News when deciding what stories to run , and
Because nothing has better insulative properties than air . A knitted blanket holds air in the spaces between the yarn threads , and your body heat warms that air up creating a shield of warm air around you . If you wrapped up in that blanket and walked outside during a blizzard , you 'd freeze because the wind would replace all your warm air pockets with cold air . However , as long as you stay inside , your body should warm the the air pockets faster than the surrounding air can cool them and toastiness ensues . EDIT : I 'm envisioning a crocheted afghan in the above example . Obviously knit hats are pretty warm even when it 's windy outside because the spaces between threads are relatively small .
The body does n't have nicotine receptors . Nicotine can " fit " into receptors for Acetylcholine , which is a common receptor . So you are stimulating the brain and body with the drug to a higher level than normal . Eventually , the body becomes used to this higher level , stop producing its own transmitters . Thus , when you do n't provide nicotine , you are depriving your body of a chemical , and then feel " withdraw symptoms " due to the inability of your body to make up the difference .
The main disadvantage is that interest rates are higher for the interest-only loan. It's higher risk to the bank, since the principal outstanding is higher for longer. According to the New York Times, "Interest rates are usually an eighth- to a half-percentage point higher than on fully amortized jumbo loans." They're also tougher to qualify for, and fewer lenders offer them, again due to the risk to the bank. Since you can always put extra towards the principal, strictly speaking, these are the only downsides. The upside, of course, is that you can make a lower payment each month. The question is what are you doing with this? If this is the only way you can afford the payments, there's a good chance the house is too expensive for you. You're not building equity in the home, and you have the risk of being underwater if the house price goes down. If you're using the money for other things, or you have variable income, it might be a different story. For the former, reinvesting in a business you own might be a reason, if you're cognizant of the risks. For the latter, salespeople on commission, or financial industry types who get most of their income in bonuses, can benefit from the flexibility.
Viruses evolve into new strains and it takes time to " update " vaccinations . The flu vaccines available at any given time are to protect against previous versions of the virus , not the current one . Flu viruses are too easily contagious and mutate too quickly for vaccination programs to " pin down " and eradicate . Until a universal flu vaccine ( one effective against previous , current and future versions of flu viruses ) is developed , vaccine research is essentially a couple of steps behind the virus and hence is constantly playing catch up . Flu viruses are also infamous for being able to cross species barriers ( avian flu , swine flu ) . Lots of other viruses do mutate . The HIV virus in particular mutates rapidly and monotherapy becomes ineffective quite quickly . I hate to bring this up since I 'm sure it 's been talked to death , but the principle of vaccination to eradicate a disease - causing virus / micro - organism relies heavily on the concept of " herd immunity " . Many vaccines are only required once because of the herd immunity that suppresses any outbreaks , giving them next to no chance to " evolve " into a major problem . As we 've seen in the news , thanks to morons not having their children immunised , measles is making a comeback . Other reason why some vaccines are only required with a one
Yes . Likely , nobody out there with the skills to do this would care enough about you to do it , but there are plenty of ways . The easiest way , would be to get you to download a trojan that lets them inspect and download files at their leisure . More sophisticated attacks rely on exploiting vulnerabilities in your software . Such as , making your computer believe you input a command that connects to a server , and gives various permissions .
Depends on whether they and their parents passed . My dad 's family is Native American . His grandmother used to tell me stories when I was a kid about growing up during the Great Depression . Her mother was too dark to pass herself off as white , so if they were in public anywhere , the kids were n't to call their mother Mama . They called her by her first name , and if anyone asked , she was their housekeeper . She never went to any of their school events or anything where it would be obvious she was the parent . It was something that was n't talked about , because if anyone knew that Adina was their mother , they 'd be outed as not - white .
There are many different explanation as to why there 's a flu season ( a surge in influenza cases around a certain time of year ) , such as : * People spending more time indoors , and subsequently in closer proximity to one another . * Less exposure to ultraviolet light that could damage / destroy the influenza virus before it can infect someone . * Cold temperatures drying up mucous membranes ( reduces body 's effectiveness against respiratory viruses ) * Cold temperatures preserve the virus longer on surfaces people come in contact with . * Less Vitamin D production in the body leading to a reduced immune system . Research in Guinea Pigs has shown that the virus is more efficiently transmitted in cold , dry air than in warm / humid air , and that it has a casing that hardens in colder temperatures ( the casing typically melts in your lungs , but obviously it is degraded in higher temperatures , too ) . Also , there 's no hard start date for the " flu season " , it 's just a general term to describe the time frame in which doctors and scientists observe an uptick in flu activity . It 's not attached to any set calendar date .
Why do you think there ought to be legal issues ? Anyone can use any other brand in their commercial so long as they do n't construe that brand as endorsing your own ( without their permission ) or say anything untrue about it . You usually wo n't see a company show a competitor 's brand in their commercial because they do n't want to increase their competitor 's brand recognition . Since it 's impossible to increase Coke 's brand recogition ( it is the most recognized brand in the world ) , there 's no incentive for Pepsi to avoid using them on this count .
Microwaves are simply a part of the electromagnetic spectrum . Along with visible light . Also , radio waves , infrared , ultraviolet , etc , etc . These are all just different frequencies of the same kind of waves . So microwaves and visible light are only different in the wavelength and frequency of these waves . But , different frequencies of electromagnetic waves do have different effects on stuff . So , when you turn on your microwave , it 's like a " light bulb " that emits microwaves instead of visible light . It just so happens that electromagnetic waves at this frequency excite the molecules in things such as water ( and other stuff , too , but it works real well on water ) . The waves make the water molecules jump and spin around . That 's heat . So , yes , it 's radiation . But like light from your lightbulb is radiation . Not like the ionizing radiation emitted by nuclear waste or x - rays . X - rays , while also part of the electromagnetic spectrum , * are * ionizing , because they have enough energy to * ionize * an atom ( beat the shit out of electrons enough that they get scared and run off , abandoning their home atom , instead of just hide for a while in a higher energy state ) .
There are several ways he actually did this : - He was , but of course , a bloody genius - We must realize that he was not always deaf . His deafness started with mild ringing in the ears to gradually fading over a period of 12 - 13 years . Now , this sent him into panic mode initially and he tried his best to combat the impeding deafness . He took dips in the Rhine valley , tried rinsing his ears with horns and other crude apparatus available at that time - Now at some point ( once you read his letters ) he realizes that he is going deaf and it 's not just restricted to ringing - This led to depression , random anger misdirected to people , animals etc . - But he also learnt how to combat the impeding deafness . He started focussing more on understanding how to ' recognize music ' . This involved reading / writing more . He had a piano with a headrest . People have seen him put his head on top of the piano and try out a single note for hours . Needless to say , he was n't efficient as his early days , but he could still perceive music from Vibrations and beats . - Even when he thought he could , he was unable to conduct and his tempo was off . There used to be a secondary conductor behind him and
Cutting spending can mean more indirect methods of balancing the budget - in addition to eliminating direct government expenditures , tax breaks , various subsidies , and incentive programs have been targeted . What this ultimately does is reduce aggregate demand levels and stalls economic growth . The government , like it or not , pours enormous amounts of money into the economy , and it would be disastrous to reduce this in a recession , where demand levels are already below optimal levels .
A lawyer is n't actually required for divorce , if the divorcing couple has worked out how the split will happen and understands how to do the needed paperwork . I know people who 've completed a simple divorce with just a notary to make things official . But a lot of couples do n't have that agreement or the understanding of the paperwork to be filed , and then a lawyer can be helpful .
The principle is called the economy of scale . They literally ship tons at a time . They might only sell orders of only a few dollars each , but use cheaper 6 week freight shipping , they can net a small profit per sale . Multiply this by a few thousand , to make shipping a container full worthwhile , and you get a tidy sum . It 's not too different from how you can go to a Walmart and buy 4 tees for $ 5 .
* Training and education - pilots must learn how to fly and pass tests to prove they 're good enough * Air traffic control - all flights are monitored and planned to keep planes from running into each other ( or even getting close together , which causes turbulence ) * Engineering - planes are designed to be stable , sturdy , and easy to fly , with lots of monitoring equipment , backups , and fail - safes . A lot of things have to go wrong in a row for a plane to be so broken that it crashes .
A few other things that have n't been mentioned : 1 . Surveillance . Unweaponized drones can engage in espionage , and that 's difficult territory to work out ( especially in the framework of Geneva ) . 2 . Some guy can drop his kids off at school , drive to work , press a button that kills a person on the other side of the world , and come home for dinner . It skews the psychological balance of warfare to an arguably unfair degree . 3 . [ Double tapping ] ( URL_0 ) and other tactics that are at best legally and ethically questionable .
They treat the water ( filter , chlorine , etc ) before it goes into the pipes in a way that kills any bacteria that may contaminate the water . If you keep pumping clean water into a system constantly , it will keep it clean . Even if there was a small leak somewhere , the system is always under pressure , so nothing can get in .
This is n't 100 % accurate but it 's the best LI5 explanation I can do : When you get hurt ( from getting cut , burned , bumped , etc ) , a soup of chemicals get released in the area from broken cells . When those chemicals come into contact with pain receptors , that causes the feeling of pain . One type of painkiller will block the formation of the pain - causing chemicals . edit : changed a few things
Let 's say you and your best friend decide to be naughty and plan to steal some tasty candy from the teacher 's bowl . When she 's not looking , you two sneak up for the take , but get caught and are sent to the principal 's office . The two of you are separated , you ca n't talk to each other at all , ca n't pass notes or anything like that . The principal tells you that they really only want to punish whoever came up with the idea , and that if you give up your friend , and say it was all his idea , he 'll get a month of time out during recess and you get no punishment . But , if you do n't say anything at all , they 'll put you in time out for 1 day for making mischief . You 're not going to give up your friend that easily , so you refuse . The principal then tells you that your friend has been given the same option , and if he gives you up but you do n't say anything , they 'll assume it was all your idea and YOU get 1 month of time out . If you both give up the other , he will punish you both with 3 days of time out for lying . So what do you do , knowing that your friend , as smart as
This is as ELI5 as I can make it ... So the value of housing is increasing and you want to get in on it . You buy a house that s worth about $ 100 ( Just .... go with it ) . You take out a loan for that $ 100 with $ 50 in interest due . You accept knowing you ll probably sell that home for $ 200 , pay off the loan , and net a cool $ 50 . Well that home keeps getting bought and sold . And now someone has taken out a loan to buy that home at say .... $1000 . Well , there 's a problem . The economy is hitting a slowdown , as economies do . Its natural . But we have a big issue . That $ 1000 home ? Is still the $ 100 home it used to be . You 've over valued that house . And with a weak economy , no one wants to buy it . In a proper situation , the banks lent out that money to responsible people who would have taken a hit but still would have been able to pay the fees for it . In this situation , the banks were stupid and lent money to people that were jumping on the housing gold rush . These people did nt even have the income to pay the interest let alone the fees . So the bank
There was an incident in which a 16 year - old boy was shot and killed by police . Witnesses say that he had no weapon , but police say the opposite . There have been arrests at the wake for the boy , and three nights of protesting by the people in a part of Flatbush . The escalation of this protesting has lead to a serious increase in police presence and therefore an increased number of arrests . As for the ' frozen zone , ' I 'm not sure what that is . My understanding is that it allows the police to make arrests more easily and disallows media from gaining entrance to this area . EDIT : added a word
First , understand that it is an investment account . You put money into it and use that money to buy investments ( like stocks , bonds , mutual funds and so on ) . Those investments earn a return and grow over time . One day when you retire you take the money out to pay for food . The government wants people to save for retirement . It 's good not to have a bunch of starving old people kicking around , so they want to offer an incentive . So they make a law that says " If you put money into a retirement savings account , we wo n't tax you on that money until when you retire " . So , say you make $ 50,000 today . If you spend all the money you are taxed as if you made $ 50,000 . Lets assume your tax rate is 15 % so you pay $ 7,500 in taxes . If you put $ 10,000 in a 401k plan , then you would be taxed as if you had only made $ 40,000 ( 50 - 10 ) and would owe $ 6,000 in taxes . When you retire , you take that $ 10,000 out . Only now you make much less money so you pay a lower tax rate , say 10 % . So you pay $ 1,000 on that money . Overall you saved $ 500 in taxes . So this
Basically Einstein showed that nothing could go faster than the speed of light and that time was relative . If you were on a train going 5 mph slower than the speed of light ( relative to the Earth ) and you ran forward at 10 mph ( relative to the train ) , time would actually be slowed down on the train so that people standing outside the train would see you going slightly faster than the train , but not faster than the speed of light . Here is a video from a Stephen Hawking Documentary that explains it better : [ Link . ] ( URL_0 )
They are both important . RAM is really fast memory . When your computer is doing something , it puts all the information it needs in RAM so that it can retrieve it very quickly as soon as it 's needed . This is particularly important for stuff like graphics textures , which can be really big but which are needed frequently . If you do n't have enough RAM , things may be slowed down as your computer has to frequently get things from the hard disk instead . This is much slower , so your game has its speed reduced . The CPU is what actually does the calculations . The game will need a certain number of calculations per second for normal operation . If your CPU ca n't do that many , the game will be slow or stuttery . Even if your CPU can do that many , a better CPU might be able to do a lot more , and make the game smoother . You did n't ask about it , but I 'm not sure if you 're aware of the importance of the GPU , so I 'll mention that too . That 's what 's on your graphics card , which will have some RAM too to store graphics information . The GPU is a kind of special processor optimised to do graphical types of processing - the CPU would really struggle ( or totally fail ... ) to update
Leaks can also occur from bike messagers because a lot of times record labels need their legal departments to approve music , music clearances ect . There are also artist who burn there own physical copy and have their personal copies in the cars cd player and a valet / parking attendant employee burns a copy while the car is in their possession . CD replication and distribution / fulfillment plants can have employee security breaches . Heavily trafficked music studio with the engineers computer connected to the internet can be a security risk as well . There is a sort of black market for pirated music and such . Depending on how popular the artist and who you go to , if people feel they can make a quick buck before it hits the internet depends on how its leaked .
Perhaps , but probably not . The atoms in the food could be chemically combined with water ( hydrogen and oxygen ) and oxygen from the air you breathe , making compounds that are heavier than the components from the food alone . I 'm no chemist , but it seems unlikely that this would outweigh the loss of matter from the unused part of the food that is lost through elimination . If it 's possible , my guess would be that eating pure sugar might do it . You 'd probably have to neglect the weight of water you drank , though -- even though some of that would be used in the reactions .
The true ELI5 answer is " If you see hoof prints , think horses not zebras . " The idea is that the mere presence of horses in North America is fairly easy to explain . But , if you assume they are zebra prints you have to explain how zebras made it to Ohio . Both answers fit the available data but zebras requires more assumptions than horses .
Ok first question : Everything has a gravitational pull . Not just planets . You have a gravitational pull and so does your cat and your socks . Everything with mass is constantly pulling on everything else with Mass no matter how far they are . If they are n't moving fast enough to counteract the force pulling them together then they eventually collide and form a larger object with a greater pull . This continues to happen until you get planets . In some cases the planets get so massive that their gravitational pull is stronger than the forces keeping atoms far apart and then the sun will collapse into a black hole . Second question : > There are three main sources of heat in the deep earth : ( 1 ) heat from when the planet formed and accreted , which has not yet been lost ; ( 2 ) frictional heating , caused by denser core material sinking to the center of the planet ; and ( 3 ) heat from the decay of radioactive elements .
I heard that a while back the servers were upgraded with a 6 inch Rock Krawler lift . They topped that off with some 20 inch XD rims wrapped in 37 inch nitto mud grapplers . That should keep the servers up through the thickest of situations , but just in case they put a Warn winch on the front . Lastly they topped it all off with a snorkel in case things get a little wet .
That 's related to the many structures used to speak , mostly the vocal cords . Longer cords , like men 's , produce lower frequences when they vibrate , while shorter , women and children 's , produce higher sounds , exactly like a string instrument . While having their " base frequence " , people can still stretch and loose the cords to alter the pitch , squezing them together to limit the air flow and produce the raspy " whispering " voice , while having tears and bumps on them , like older people , people that stress their voice or smokers , produce that " dragging " sound , caused by the disturbances on the air flow . Volume is determined by air volume that passes through them , it 's linked to the lungs size and power but can be trained . So basicaly , the differences are determined by your physiology and the way you use it , like your way of walking .
It all goes back to the geneva convention and hague convention . Basically they cause undue suffering , can not be controlled and are indiscriminate killers . If you read about WWI and the horrors of mustard gas you would see that chemical weapons really are a line all nations should respect . I recommend dan carlins hardcore history podcast which has an awesome series on WWI
Basically the Broken Window Fallacy says that if I break a window , then the guy who fixes windows gets paid to fix it , so that helps the economy . It 's wrong because the homeowner whose window you broke has to pay for the repairs . He had a window . You destroyed the window . Now he has to buy another window . He spent money but did n't get anything for it . The window installer gets money , but it 's at the expense of the homeowner , not magical new money from nowhere . So people who trash their iPhone 4S for an iPhone 5 are n't increasing the amount of value in the economy . All they 're doing is wasting their money . They are no better off than before economically , all they did was transfer their wealth to Apple . All that money spent on iPhone 5 could have been spent putting kids through college , or improving the state of the auto industry in Detroit , or any number of things which would have long term positive effects on the economy . Instead , Apple just gets richer .
Because it would be a massive waste of money . It costs millions of dollars to get a person into space , a person who might way about 150 pounds . The more weight of your payload the more expensive it will be so to move any kind of worth while amount of trash would cost billions upon billions . This would be the single least cost effective way to deal with garbage .
Ok, so imagine I own x% of Facebook and Facebook buys WhatsApp, does this mean I own x% of WhatsApp? Yea definitely , you own x% of Whatsapp assuming Facebook buys 100% of WhatApps which is in this case How much shares of FaceBook do I need to own to have access to WhatsApp's books? As WhatsApp is a privately held company by Facebook , Facebook is not obliged to reveal the books of WhatsApp , though some not all of the books of WhatsApp may appear in Facebook financial report , it really depends on Facebook Accounting policy.
One calorie is very little as humans eat in the order of millions of calories a day . So the most common term to use is kilocalorie or kcal . To add to the confusion people are shortening kilocalorie to just Calorie . But note the capital letter on that . So 1 Cal = 1 kcal = 1000 cal .
Well from my limited understanding composed from YouTube videos and books by actual smart people , another dimension refers to the dimensions in space around us . We exist in the third dimension , and below us is the second dimension ( made up of shapes ) we can look at a square on a piece of paper and understand what being two dimensional is . You have length and width , but no height , no depth . Trying to understand the dimensions above us becomes as difficult as it would be for a sentient square to understand what we are ( read the flatlanders , it conveys this idea perfectly ) . 4th dimension is where you take our third dimensional space , and stretch it over time . It is essentially a timeline . 5th dimensional is where it gets to your question , the 5th dimension would be all possible iterations of those timelines , and in a sense , what you could look at as " multiple universes " once you are looking at the universe from this perspective you could see every iteration of what could be through the 5th dimension , and every iteration of what was and will be . through the fourth dimension .
Out of all the various possibilities , I like the idea that we continue to evolve , and okay so sure , while we end up as no longer * Homo Sapiens Sapiens * , " we " are still around . There are still people , you know ? There 's still love and music and compassion , and still hate and noise and brutality . There 's still sentient life experiencing itself .
Here is a funny story : Lisp was one of the first programming languages . It is still around , although it looks a little different than it did in 1959 . The first Lisp system was not a compiler ; it was an interpreter : instead of turning the program into machine code , it just stepped through the program code , one expression at a time . Then two grad students at MIT decided to write a compiler for Lisp . Now usually , you 'd write a compiler for a new language in either assembly code , or in some other language you already have a compiler for . But they did not write it in assembly code , or in Fortran or one of the other languages they had back then . They wrote it in Lisp . And then they compiled the compiler ... * by running the compiler on itself , using the interpreter . *
HTML defines content , CSS decorates it and helps tell how it is displayed . CSS stands for Cascading Stylesheet . This means that there is a hierarchy of style attributes overwriting other attributes that affect the same elements . Think of it like this . Bob Ross does an oil painting and starts off with a canvas covered in liquid white . This is the lowest level on the hierarchy . It applies to the entire body of the painting , like a class applied to the body tag . On that he paints some divs of class " mountain " . The mountain class has the attribute paint - color : Van Dyke Brown . Since the div is within body the paint - color : Van Dyke Brown attribute overwrites the liquid white and you see the Van Dyke Brown over the liquid white . He adds some divs of class " happy little tree " which are growing wherever they like , which happens to be on the mountains , so these happy little tree divs are within the mountain divs . Their paint - color : Sap Green is within the mountain div , so where the happy little tree divs are is painted with Sap Green on top of the Van Dyke Brown mountains . Then Bob adds another happy little tree div . This one he wants to be Alizarin Crimson because its his world and it can be whatever fucking color he
As others have said , we do most digital logic computing with binary circuits , which means that we need two states , and two symbols to represent them . 1 and 0 are convenient for this , since it makes it easier to translate binary to decimal for humans to read . The rules of binary logic are simple and easy to implement . It is possible to use other systems , but we mostly do n't . One of the big reasons for this is * * power * * . With a binary digital circuit , it is not difficult to arrange things so that when one transistor in a circuit is " on " , others are " off " in such a way that there 's not a good circuit for current to flow . This minimizes power consumption , which mostly occurs when the transistors are switching between the two states , allowing current flow . The rest of the time , we sense the voltages to represent a 1 or 0 state , but there 's very little current flow . There is at least one notable place that we use more digital logic states than 1 and 0 .... flash memory . Many flash memory devices store multiple bits per transistor . They do this by storing various amounts of charge , not just " a little " ( 0 ) or " a lot " ( 1 ) . If a
The answers so far state what the principle is , but do n't really explain . This is n't a perfect ( or,*technically * , accurate ) explanation , but I 'll try . Imagine time is frozen , and you see a baseball in the air . You know exactly where it is , but you have no idea where or how fast it 's going . Now imagine time is n't frozen . You see the baseball moving through the air . You know how fast and where it 's going , but you do n't know exactly where it is . The uncertainty principle balances those two things . The more you know about location , the less you know about momentum ... And vice versa .
Newer processors are more efficient think of it as gas mileage . Clock rate only tells you how fast the processor is stepping but tells you nothing of what the processor actually gets done with each step . If processor A does 2 instruction per clock cycle and processor B can do 4 per clock cycle than processor B can literally be ran at half the speed of A and still be faster in terms of doing work . That 's why newer processor are faster than your laptops . Yes increasing the clock rate is a way to increase performance but it 's the lazy mans way and it comes with draw backs . Increasing clock rate increases heat / power consumption and decreases stability . So the real goal for the processor companies is to make their newer processors more efficient . Lastly , it is likely that a newer processor has more cores than your 7 year old laptop and programs that are coded to use multiple cores will run much faster than they do on a single core . Edit : Yeah i realize that what i said originally does n't add up technically you 'd have to run Processor B faster at least by a little than half the speed of processor A for it to be faster .
I 've almost finished my loans ~$130,000 and 7 years later . I 'll try and give you some advice while also answering your question . 1 . Yes , you 'll receive a bill in the a mail close to graduation stating you owe X amount of dollars starting ( usually ) 6 months after you graduate . 2 . I would recommend NOT consolidating your loans if you can help it . Consolidation is when you take all your loans , and lump them into one big loan that is spread out over a much longer period of time . The benefit of consolidation is a lower monthly payment but for 20 - 30 years ( usually more expensive in the long run ) . Not consolidating means a bigger payment but getting rid of your loans after typically 10 years or less . 3 . If you do n't consolidate , PAY THE LARGEST INTEREST RATE FIRST ! ! ! ! It does n't matter the size of the loan . Pay whatever extra you can each month towards the loan with the largest interest rate , and you 'll be keeping more money in your own pocket . 4 . If you 're still in school now , I 'd highly recommend getting a job on the side(if you do n't already have one ) and pay start paying off the interest you 've already accrued . Otherwise the interest you owe will just keep getting
> Please do n't say , " it means you can say whatever you want " Ca n't say this because free speech in the US is not absolute . Also , there are volumes and volumes of opinion on this . Google around and see what you can find . But here 's the short of it : What you 're talking about is protected speech . The First Amendment to the US Constitution states ( in part ) that " Congress shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech . " Just what kind of limits can be seton this right has been a topic for debate practically since the amendment was committed to paper . Since the adoption of the amendment , The Supreme Court has held that there are some limits to this , and absolute freedom of speech should not exist . For example , in Schenck v. United States , 249 U.S. 47 , 39 S. Ct . 247 , 63 L. Ed . 470 ( 1919 ) , Justice Holmes remarked " The most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theater and causing a panic . " Another example of limits is obscenity such as child pornography , tortuous acts like invasion of privacy and defamation , divulging national security secrets ( such as nuclear information , " top secret " documents , etc ) and things like that . Also
The perception of sound is n't what is dangerous , it is the impact of the associated pressure wave ( what we register as sound ) on the delicate apparatus of the ear . If the ear is structurally intact , then that impact can damage it whether you are able to perceive sound or not . In other words , whether you can hear or not , you can still blow out your eardrum .
With a lot of music , there 's a kind of tension between what 's predictable and what 's interesting or novel . Predictable elements are things like chords that are very harmonious and lead naturally to one another , rhymes and predictable themes in lyrics , melodies that match well with the underlying harmony , etc . What makes a lot of music " interesting " is straddling this line between the predictable and familiar and breaking these rules . For average listeners , music that breaks too many of these rules -- lyrics that are nonsensical or bizarre , melodies that do n't seem to conform to any patterns , chords that seem misplaced or sound " wrong"--is [ very difficult ] ( URL_1 ) and can be [ unpleasant to listen to ] ( URL_0 ) . Of course , there 's nothing * * wrong * * with music like this , but for many people it 's not an enjoyable listening experience . The flip side of that is that music that does n't break * * any * * rules is , well , boring . If every line rhymes just how you think it will , and tells a story about being happy and dancing ; if every piece of the melody and harmony progress in exactly the way your mind expects them to ... that 's not interesting for most people . Because of their developing brains , their threshold for what
Your brain is made up of billions of neurons , which are specialized , electrically excitable cells . These neurons communicate with each other using neurotransmitters , or specific chemicals which indicate things such as pleasure and pain . For example , when sexually excited , your brain releases serotonin and dopamine to reinforce this positive behavior ( i.e. reproduction ) . Serotonin and dopamine are the two neurotransmitters which are used to communicate pleasure / happiness . A serotonin deficiency can cause depression and sometimes bipolar disorder ( which is why some antidepressants are referred to as SSRIs , or " selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , " i.e. they make your brain use " too much " serotonin ) . Excess levels of dopamine can cause schizophrenia .
They use less data because they are modern and compressed ( lots of pixels squeezed together ) . Gifs as a technology are old , obsolete and from before compression like this existed . With gifycat and imgur doing html5 compression , usage will slowly go down . That said there are millions of gifs out there , and being an image as opposed to video has a certain attraction .
I have no idea what the traditional accounting way of dealing with this might be; but does your accounts package has the concept of subaccounts within a bank account? If so, to me it would make sense that when a cheque is written, you move money in the accounts package from the bank account to a subaccount named 'Cheques Written'; then when it is cashed, move money from that subaccount to the supplier. Then from a reporting perspective, when you want a report that will correspond to your actual bank statement, run a report that includes the subacconut; when you want a report that tells you how much you have available to spend, rune a report that excludes the subaccount.
Being cut out to win a game show does n’t make you cut out to actually go on and be a celebrity . Being a rock / pop star takes a lot of work , and living a public life that some people find suffocating , others simply lack the incredible social skills required . Then there ’s also the lightning striking twice problem : only one person wins a year . It ’s pretty hard to be that person . Likewise , it ’s very hard to have one hit single , much less more than one , and that does n’t happen for many people .
The US does not give a rat 's ass about spreading democracy , never has . On more than one occasion , we 've overthrown a democratically - elected government and installed a brutal dictatorship in its place . What we care about are our " national interests , " which basically translates to corporate profits . China is a * huge * business market , and we 're not about to do anything to jeopardize that . If China rolls actual tanks into Hong Kong and starts gunning down protesters in the street , we 'll make some outraged squeaking noises , but that will be about the extent of our opposition .
You said your strategy was to put it into a index fund. But then you asked about setting stock limits. I'm confused. Funds usually trade at their price at the end of the day, so you shouldn't try to time this at all. Just place your order. If you are buying ETFs, there is going to be so much volume on the market that your small trade is going to have no impact on the price. You should just place a market order. A market order is an order to buy or sell a stock at the current market price. A limit order is an order to buy or sell a security at a specific price. In the US, when you place a trade with any broker, you can either place a limit order or a market order. A market order just fills your order with the next best sellers in line. If you place an order for 100 shares, the sellers willing to sell 100 shares at the lowest price will be matched with your order (sometimes you may get 50 shares at one price and 50 shares at a slightly different price). If your stock has a lot of volatility and you place a market order for a small amount of shares, you will get the best price. If you place a limit order, you specify the price at which you want to buy shares. Your order will then only be filled with sellers willing to sell at
Well the most commonly banned weapons are weapons that ca n't discriminate between a combatant and a civilian . When you attack another country , you do n't want to kill it 's civilians , they 're just normal people , they really are n't to blame for the actions of that nation which pissed you off so much , and they 're the ones who will pick up most of the pieces after you leave , so if you treat them well , they 're less likely to want to get revenge . So giving them the plague , or asphyxiating schools , or nuking the whole damn place to hell is generally frowned upon . As well as cruel and unusual deaths by more standard means . For instance , triangular - shaped bayonets were banned because the wound was a bitch to stitch up , and it would inflict a slow , gangrenous death . Now , once enough countries realize that wars should be fought primarily between soldiers , and not soldiers vs. civilians , they got together at Geneva and signed these accords to ban certain weapons . Now , in order to actually enforce these bans , they made it illegal to mass - produce and use these weapons without heavy oversight . If someone does begin mass - production unauthorized , they face severe consequence up to , and including , military intervention from the other signers , i.e. USA vs Iraq (
Science has shown that the memory of a thing activates the very same neurons as the actual experience of that thing . Subjectively , you are able to distinguish the two . One of the characters in the movie Waking Life put it so aptly , " the brain inhibits the activation of the vividness of memories . This makes evolutionary sense . It 'd be maladapted for the perceptual image of a predator to be mistaken for the memory of one and vice - versa . If the memory of a predator conjured up a perceptual image , we 'd be running off to the bathroom every time we had a scary thought . "
One theory is that when infants are laying down , they turn their head to one side . Most babies turn their head to the right so they spend most of their time looking at their right hand . Because they spend so much time looking at this hand , they learn how move and manipulate it sooner than their left hand , which makes their right hand dominant .
Firstly it 's important to realize there 's different different types of nuclear radiation . There are five types : * Alpha * Beta * Gamma * X - ray * Neutron ( which I 'll ignore for this question ) Different types of radiation have different effects . [ This image ] ( URL_0 ) is a very good model for the penetrating effects of radiation . Alpha particles ca n't penetrate the skin , but can be dangerous if ingested . The best example is the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko with Polonium-210 which is an Alpha emitter . Beta particles can penetrate the skin for a few centimeters but not much more . These actually have been put to good use ; Beta emitters such as Iodine-131 are used in cancer treatment . You can reasonably selectively irradiate a cancer without affecting healthy tissue like with Gamma treatment . Alpha and Beta particles are limited in penetrating and are less of a health risk usually . Gamma and X - ray photons can penetrate tissue quite easily . It 's therefor important to take extra precautions while working with Gamma and X - Ray emitters . Lead is a high density metal which makes it well suited to stopping Gamma and X - ray radiation . Gold and silver have these properties as well but are more expensive , thallium , bismuth are more toxic . Depleted uranium works as well , but is both expensive and toxic
Hello and Welcome to ‘Ask A Doctor’ service. I have reviewed your query and here is my advice. If it's an acute episode of mania, it probably cannot be controlled by 250mg. If it is uncontrollable, getting admitted under supervision of a Psychiatrist and administering injectable antipsychotics is also preferable. You can escalate gradually based on her response to medication.Avoid sedatives. I hope I have answered your query. Feel free to ask further questions.
> I would think they 'd try to become something better , not worse . Scary does not mean better . Being able to scare other animals might help with survival , or it might not . All that matters is staying alive until you can make babies , and if being scary does n't help then a species probably wo n't evolve in that direction . Also , huge , scary animals could go extinct for any number of reasons including climate change , depletion of their food source , our just being out - competed by smaller animals in the same ecological role .
While I am not an expert on climatology and geography , I believe it is because of the way the trade winds circulate around that section of the globe . The trade winds of that region runs smack into the mountains on the eastern portion of the continent and releases all the moisture at once and therefore there is none left to rain upon the rest of the land . Also the prevalence of exceedingly hot temperatures in the interior also limit the amount of rain that can fall based upon the adiabatic circumstances of how much moisture can be held in warm / hot air versus colder air . That last sentence would be a worthy subject of a EL5 thread itself .
There is an organization called the " Internet Assigned Numbers Authority " and they control the global allocation of IP addresses . That s as close to " who controls the internet " as you will get , but its not that simple . any computer connected to the internet could be a server even the device you are using right now ( laptop / ipod / desktop ) . Here is a simplified example . lets say you wanted to host a website called " URL_0 " that shows pictures of cats from your laptop . You would need a few things . 1 ) a webserver ( software ) 2 ) a static ip address 3 ) the domain URL_1 registered 4 ) an internet connection So you register the domain by telling a registering company that you want to point the site name ( URL_1 ) to your ip address ( 123.111.22.33 ) that your service provider gave you . Your laptop will always have that ip address just like all the other sites on the internet always have their same ip address . that means I can see your laptop on the internet if i type out URL_2 ip address > the fact that URL_1 is pointing to your laptops ip makes it easier to remember instead of typing the ip address every time i want my fix of cat pics . So there is no real " server room " of the internet . There
I am not good at it but I do it enough that I know a few tricks . If you want to do something like add 86 and 37 , you know that 86 is 14 less than 100 , so call that 100 and take 14 off the 37 , so this is 123 perhaps a little easier than carrying in your head . I do n't know any real addition tricks that are n't some variation of this . There are lots of tricks when multiplying . To do 10 's you add a zero , obviously . To do 20 's you double and add a zero . 5 's is add a zero and halve . 18 you can do 20 and subtract 10 % , like 18 x 33 is 660 - 66 = 594 . There are lots of these .
Banks create money and wealth . Wealth is something of value that usually gains value over time . Like a business . Money is a representation of wealth , and is used to transfer wealth . The banks are allowed to loan 10xs the amount of money they have in stock from customer accounts . So it is loaning money that does n't exist yet . They just tell the federal reserve to send more bills ( basically ) . Otherwise it is just transfering numbers in a computer ( basically ) . They loan it out into the economy and the loan holder uses it to pay back the loan and improve the economy by investing it . Maybe they buy a home , or a car , or a business , or stocks . Then they pay it back to the bank with interest . thus creating real money and wealth from essentially nothing .
The flag itself was held up by a bar extending from the pole . That 's what it was hanging on . Why did it flap if there 's no air ? It flapped precisely because there 's no air ! In an environment with no air , if you start something swinging ( say by nudging it ) then there 's nothing to stop it or slow it down . In handling the flag pole and setting it up the flag started swinging , and there was no air resistance to slow it down or stop it . So it was n't flapping in a breeze so much as it was swinging freely with no resistance .
The system would not break down . The U.N. would continue to function as normal , almost entirely . A state of war between two permanent members could paralyze the Security Council ( with respect to the war between them ) , because permanent members have a veto with respect to Security Council resolutions . Here is an org chart of the UN : URL_0 The Security Council is one of many " organs " of the United Nations , responsible for " international security " only . Even then , the warring permanent members could still agree to intervene in other conflicts that do n't set them against each other .
Look back at your high school years or college years . You probably think of those years as being fun and awesome ( for at least some of us ) . People tend to remember the good times and not the small day to day shitty stuff . Sure you 'll remember something that may have traumatized you or something that was really bad but mostly people remember the past as being a better time because they do n't remember the bad .
Candle stick patterns are generally an indication of possible short term changes in price direction (if a reversal pattern). A doji is such a reversal candle, and should be read as there could be a short term change in the direction of price action. A doji is most effective at peaks or troughs, and the outcome can be a higher probability if occuring during overbought conditions (at the peak) or during oversold conditions (at the trough). So a doji should be used for short term changes in direction and not a total change in the overall trend. Although there could be a doji at the very top of an uptrend or at the very bottom of a downtrend, we wouldn't know it was the change of the trend until price action confirms it. The definition of an uptrend is higher highs and higher lows. The definition of a downtrend is lower lows and lower highs. So an uptrend will not be broken until we have a lower high and confirmed by a lower low, or a lower low confirmed by a lower high. Similarly a downtrend will not be broken until we have a higher low confirmed by a higher high or a higher high followed by a higher low. Another thing to consider is that doji's and other candle stick patters work best when the market is trending, even if they are only short term trends. You should usually wait for confirmation of the change in direction by only
I 've worked in an apple processing plant in a previous life . The first stop is a rough sorting of apples that can be used and sold in stores , and the other nasty bruised deformed ones . Those get trucked down the road to the juicing plant . In general , the produce that gets made into juice is n't the same quality that you see in the stores , so it gets sold to the juicers for a much lower price .
Simply put , there is no l in Japanese , and the sound they use for r is somewhere in between l and r. As an analogy , English does n't care about aspiration ( e.g. the difference between khan and kan ) , so English speakers learning a language that observes this difference ( Chinese or Hindi ) sometimes confuse them .
Wood is not a single thing , it 's a bunch of stuff arranged together to make what we call wood . There 's water , carbon , and a whole bunch of other stuff in it . Each of these has its own temperature that it becomes liquid and gas , as well as the temperature it burns at . For some things , the " burn " temperature is lower than the temperature it melts at , or lower than the temperature of the other stuff in the wood . When wood is heated the stuff in it starts to break down from the heat . The water changes from liquid to gas and other stuff starts to change because of both the heat and the water boiling away . Then some of the stuff in the wood begins to burn because it is higher than its " combustion point " ( a fancy way of saying how hot it can get before it burns ) . The heat released by the stuff beginning to burn raises the temperature even further and other stuff begins to burn . The biggest reason that wood does n't melt is really that the stuff that 's in it will mostly burn before it melts .
Let 's pretend that the piston container and motor are all completely unbreakable and can exert an infinite amount of force . The first thing that would happen is that the water would turn into a type of ice when compressed enough . Beyond that , at an extremely high rate of compression you may get fusion . The same type a fusion that powers our Sun . In essence the water would turn into a tiny star . Next if the compression were to continue That star would turn into a black hole . Now , because our container and piston are completely indestructible the black hole would evaporate immediately . Black holes give off a type of radiation . This radiation causes them to lose mass . Without being fed the black hole will evaporate to the point where it does not have enough mass to continue being a black hole .
1 ) fallout . US and USSR gov picked remote locations where nobody cared about the fallout . 2 ) if the device is detonated above ground , radiation settles and it 's still there . bikini atoll where the H bomb was detonated is still unlivable . 3 ) yea , some ppl saw the bombs go off . some scientists , some enthusiasts . when nukes were developed , they did nt fully understand radiation poisoning and long term effects on the body . this was a gov project to develop a weapon , not a medical study of the aftereffects . people posed for photographs in front of a mushroom cloud . it was a great achievement for advancement of science in the name of fighting the commies .
Because the benefits outweigh the risks . Let 's put it very simply . Let 's say you were in charge of approving drugs . Someone comes to you and says " OK , with this drug , we did a test of patients afflicted by the condition we 're trying to treat . Of the group who did n't take it , 40 % were dead in 5 years . Of the group who did take it , 15 % were dead in five years . But , of the people who took it , 3 % of them died due to explosive diarrhea . " So , what would you do ? Would you approve the drug because it helped a significant number of people live longer ? Or would you deny it because a small fraction of the people who took it died of boompoop ?
There are a couple of ways that astronomers go about finding the surface temperature of the sun , or any other star for that matter . Consider the heating elements on an electric stove or in a toaster . As they heat up they begin glowing , first a dim deep red while cool , then brighter and whiter as they get hotter and hotter . The brightness and color of the light will be related to the temperature of the object , so that you can tell the temperature just from the light you see the object emitting . Additionally , in stars some of the light being emitted from the center of the star will be scattered by atoms in the outer layers of the star resulting in certain colors of light being seen as dimmer . These are called absorption lines in the spectrum of the star . The amount of light that these lines block are dependent on temperature and provide a second way to measure the star 's surface temperature . Also , since these lines have a unique pattern for each type of atom in the star 's atmosphere , we can tell what the star is made up of as well .
FCC rules which became effective on 2012 require commercials to have the same average volume as the programs they accompany . These rules were made under the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act ( CALM Act ) , which Congress passed in 2010 . So you might be listening to a show that has a lot of loud points ; this affects the average volume of the program , and so allows louder ads . Also , there are some exceptions to the rules ( for small cable systems or TV stations , usually in smaller markets ) . Finally , the broadcaster could just be ignoring the rules . This happens [ all the ] ( URL_2 ) [ time ] ( URL_0 ) . Part of the problem is that the rules are pretty toothless ( no mandatory penalties ) . You can complain to the FCC , and if they get enough complaints they may go after the broadcaster . URL_1
During a routine check - up , if a Doctor " shines a light in your eyes " , he is checking three things , fundamentally . * * * 1 - Light exposure reflex * * . This is the most familiar to people , the Doctor will shine a small torch in your eyes , illuminating the right eye from the left side of you and vice versa after he asks you to focus on a point across the room . He is looking for contraction of the pupil ( miosis ) and dilation of the pupil ( mydriasis ) . Whilst he is looking at whether your pupils contract or dilate he is also looking for a consensusal pupillary response , meaning when the light is shone into your right eye , that both the right pupil and left pupil contract simultaneously . This seems like a very simple test , and it is , but it allows physicians to quickly assess the condition of the patient 's brain stem , whether they have any nerve damage ( such as ocularmotor or optic ) and even whether they 've taken any drugs , specifically barbiturates . * * * 2 - Torch Test * * . In this test , which is often performed in tandem or just after the above test , the Doctor shines a light into one of your eyes and then pivots his wrist and shines the light into your other eye and
Because they make their money off people 's troubles . Getting divorced ? Get ready to pay a lawyer . Hit by a car ? Lawyer . Fired for discriminatory reasons ? Lawyer . Abused ? Lawyer . The more problems there are in the world , the better the lawyers do . There 's also the common stereotype , which does have quite a strong basis in reality , that attorneys are relentless hounds and will do anything to win a case , even if that means harassing people .
Mixing friendship and money, whether that's loans or landlording, is risky. Often things work out, but sometimes the unexpected happens, and it doesn't. If things go wrong, are you prepared to walk away from either the friendship or the money? After you've considered that, the next question is how your roommates feel about the deal. You're looking to charge your friends $2000 to rent part of a property that, from the sound of it, they could rent much cheaper from a stranger. Maybe the market is different in Cleveland, but in my area, I'd expect to pay $2000 in rent for a place worth closer to $300,000 than $100,000. Have your roommates expressed interest in the idea, and have you discussed dollar values with them? Are you still interested if they ended up paying $1600 in rent? $1000?
A defibrillator ' resets ' a heart in a way . If you have a bad rhythm , it stops it ( hopefully ) , so that it can start back up with a correct rhythm . If your heart has * stopped , * something is wrong with it . Maybe it is damaged , has insufficient supply , and so on . Trying to stop it * harder * does n't fix the problem . Defibrillators do n't repair hearts .
The one used in the gold foil experiment was the alpha particle ( two protons and two neutrons together ) . Radioactive substances found in nature like Uranium or Radium naturally decay and shoot out alpha particles . If you want electrons , you make a voltage between two electrodes in a gas , or shoot light on a photoelectric substance . Some substances emit electrons when heated too . If you want heavier particles such as ions , there are some chemical reactions that produce ions . In each case , you then speed them up by using electric and magnetic fields in certain configurations , and ' shoot ' them .
Edison was a dick . A good portion of what he invented was either bought or stolen . One popular moment in time between edison and tesla , was when edison was trying to show how dangerous AC current electricity was . He would happily pay children 25 cents to bring them stray animals so anytime he had a press conference he would be able to show off how dangerous the AC current is . Finally he uses the AC current to build the very first electric chair in a mere effort to scare people off . But tesla came back with his own plains and demonstrated that the AC current was actually safe . He held a demonstration where the current ran through his body with light bulbs .
The Old Testament ( Jews refer to it as the Hebrew Bible or the Tanakh ) is made up of three parts . The Torah ( Made up of Genesis , Exodus , Leviticus , Numbers , and Deuteronomy ) The Nevi'im ( The books of the Prophets , made up of Joshua , Judges , I & II Samuel , I & II Kings , Isaiah , Jeremiah , Ezekiel , Hosea , Micah , Amos , and a few more ) And the Ketuvim ( The Books of the Writings , including Psalms , Proverbs , Job , Esther , Ruth , Ecclesiastes , Daniel , The Song of Solomon , I & II Chronicles , Ezra / Nehemiah , Lamentations ) . These books make up the history ( mythological and otherwise ) of the Jewish people , from the beginning of time until the return from the exile to Babylon ( ~500 BCE ) . It mainly charts the progression of the relationship between the descendants of Jacob and God , and how covenants between these people and their deity were made , broken , and changed . This selection of documents was canonized ( made official ) around the time of the return from Babylon , but some of the texts ( such as Daniel ) are significantly later . There are apocryphal texts that close the narrative gap between this period and the period of the New Testament , mainly the Books of Maccabees
Its lighter than air , so when you speak it moves faster than air you speak with normally would and this results in a higher frequency . And its not terribly dangerous but keep in mind every breath of helium is a breath your body gets no oxegyn from so do n't do to many or you may pass out ( long before you get to passing out your chest will feel.on fire and tight you ll get dizzy and lightheaded as your body tells you " hey dumbass take a real breath " ) . Even if you ignore all of your body 's " you 're killing " me signals you will begin to breath normally once you pass out . Edited to insert a missed "
As a person that has had to deal with severe depression at diff points in life , I can at least give you an anecdotal answer , based on my own experience and years taking therapy and doing research on my own free time . & nbsp ; When negative thoughts turn into negative emotions , and we cease to think positively and look at problems / life from different perspectives , we dig ourselves deeper into a hole , which ultimately ends up with depression , that prolonged sadness that inhibits us from being active and living our lives .
What makes google work well , is that it looks at how frequently other pages link ( or points ) to a page . Say you have a page about rabbits . The more pages in the internet that point to your page about rabbits , the higher it will appear on in the search results . So if I like your page and link to it , google sees that and ' thinks ' that your page is slightly better . There is a great explanation of this on Radio Lab 's episode on [ emergence ] ( URL_0 ) . Take a listen !
About the decrepit and abandoned housing , there is n't a lot the city can do about that . It 's hard contacting some of the owners in order to get the permission to get rid of abandoned houses and such . There are plans to demolish these parts of the city and replace them with things like community farms and such , but even that will take at least a decade or more . Detroit is * full * of corrupt politicians . I mean take a look at the Kwame scandal a few years back . He stole a lot of money from the city for nice cars and pointless shit . adam_frankenstein summed it up pretty well , but even his summary is n't the tip of the iceberg . I 've lived near Detroit my entire life and I 've talked with many many people about the city and its problems . It 's like a big tangled web of cause and effect .
Power = volts × amps . A transformer can keep roughly the same power while changing the ratio of volts to amps . E.g 9V×0.5A = 40,000V×0.000113A A transformer works with two coils of wire around iron . The ratio of turns around each coil is the ratio of transformation . I made something like this as a kid . I got very fine wire from a car and wound thousands of loops round a nail using the reel from a fishing rod .
there are a couple of different messages in the book / movie and in fact the movies essentially all but eliminates one of those messages ( to my way of thinking ) . The primary message in the movie , again just my opinion , is that to be human is to be free and in being free we are free to make decisions and we are also subject to the consequences of those decisions . So Alex does wrong , Alex goes to prison ... whoever , if Alex is unable to chose to do wrong , then there is no reason for him to suffer the consequences of his actions . All is back to normal when Alex 's will is restored and he happily carries on his life of crime ( and likely to be subject to the consequences ) . The movie is disturbing because Alex does not seem to have changed . What gives ? Well , this ending keeps the emphasis on free humans being able to make choices . The movie however leaves out the final chapter of the book , the redemption of Alex . Alex gives up his life of ultra violence and becomes a member and participant of civil society . This is really the " coming of age " theme , that we can not be forced to mature on someone else 's arbitrarily short schedule but on nature 's schedule for us . The book told the story
A few points here . First , sure , video editing and manipulation tools are incredibly sophisticated these days . But for really good results , you need studio environments and incredibly well - planned shoots . Taking raw , candid , unscripted footage and convincingly modifying it to depict something that did n't happen is * way * harder than it sounds . Second , but just because convincing fakery might be * possible * does n't mean that it * happened * in any particular instance . It 's trivially easy to * dispose * of video , and only slightly more difficult to * selectively edit * video , deleting parts one does n't wish to be seen . But actually producing * fake * video , even using existing footage , is still quite tricky . Doable , sure , but time - consuming and expensive . Hollywood can certainly do amazing things these days , but at the cost of * millions * of dollars . Seriously , Marvel can easily spend something like half of the budget on the MCU movies on VFX . Nobody outside Hollywood is dropping six figures modifying surveillance footage , and the number of people that would need to be involved in such a project would make keeping it a secret almost impossible . Suggesting that video footage has been fabricated is rightly regarded as wild conspiracy theorizing , not a credible challenge to the authenticity of the video
National budgets range in the trillions . A million dollars is a millionth of a trillion . If you donated a million dollars to Ethiopia and it was perfectly distributed among the population , every person would get about a penny . We actually give many billions of dollars to third world countries , but there are still so many people that it can only have limited impact . For example , last year the US government gave around $ 600,000,000 to Ethiopia , which amounts to about $ 6 a person . $ 6 is n't going to make a poor person not be poor anymore . It 's only $ 6 . Many people will bring up the corruption and bureaucracy that prevents aid from reaching the people , and that may be a valid reason not to donate more aid . But regardless of the reasons , third world countries are not donated so much money that they should not be poor anymore .
The skin on your arm has a higher level of resistance to electricity , mostly ( I believe ) due the natural oils from your skin . Your tongue does not have this shielding and will have little resistance against the electric current . > The condition of the skin at the points of contact are critical . The actual resistance of the body may vary from 1000 ohms for wet skin to over 500,000 ohms for dry skin . However , once the skin is broken through ( for example by the burning away of skin ) the body presents no more than 500 ohms resistance to the current .
It 's like a big plaza . People walk into it and share something ( a picture , a video , whatever ) , and see if other people like it . If someone likes it , they 'll gather a crowd of people around it . The biggest crowds move near the entrance of the plaza . Naturally , these crowds get more attention , since they 're at the front . People also start to talk inside the crowds , and start discussions . The most popular discussions gather a group of people around them ( but they 're all still in the same crowd ) . After a while , though , people get bored of it ( usually within a day ) , and they all leave to the next big thing . Points keep track of how many big crowds you 've had for all time . Basically , plaza(frontpage ) > crowds(posts ) > groups(comments ) . Number of people in crowds / groups is karma points . There are also smaller plazas for people who like certain things . Let 's say it 's ponies . In this plaza , you can only talk about ponies , and the most popular things about ponies get a big crowd .
To provide a little more to this discussion , a jet engine is a type of gas turbine . A gas turbine is an engine that works by sucking in air with a fan , compressing it along the way , igniting it , and extracting energy from the exploding gasses . Q : what powers the compression fan ? A : At the exhaust , there is another fan . The fans are connected by a shaft , so the expanding gas at the back of the engine twists the shaft , which turns the compression fan in the front of the engine . Q : So the rest of the gas flies out of the back of the engine , pushing the engine ( and whatever it 's attached to ) forward . A : Not so fast . Some jet engines , like the ones on passenger airliners and jet fighters , do exactly that . But , you can extract the energy from the combustion in another way ! Q : How ? A : By attaching something else you want to power to that fan shaft ! For example , many helicopters and commercial propeller planes have a linkage to that fan shaft that powers a propeller . Yes , some of the energy goes out the exhaust , but the energy used for propulsion is actually sent to the propeller . Q : Wow , these things sound pretty big ! A : They
When a women is pregnant with a ' baby ' it takes a certain amount of time for the ' baby ' to grow big enough for it to be considered viable(that if the child were born today it would survive ) . The time that we consider depends state to state and country to country , now if a women with a viable ' baby ' is slain then in some states we consider this a double homicide as the ' baby ' would have most likely survived otherwise .
Time complexity of an algorithm relations the size of the input data with the time ( or more specifically , number of operations ) it takes to complete . Space is the same , just with memory . For example , hash tables consume a lot of space in exchange for lower time complexity . Energy complexity is a less theoretical and more practical measurement . It relations the size of the input data with the number of watts it will take to complete the algorithm . While not as theoretically robust , it is a more useful calculation for someone who wants to run a data center or design an app that runs on a mobile device .
It should also be mentioned ( in addition to all the posts pointing out that it 's a matter of moving hot air outside , in order to get cool air inside ) that if you already have a good air flow through the house this wo n't be anywhere near as effective as simply pointing the fan at yourself . Pointing it out the window is most effective if you 're not getting a decent flow through the house to begin with .
( Private in the sense that it 's not open to the public , the university has every right to ask citizens of the country to not come onto the grounds whether they 're violating some other rule or not . ) It 's private property , they can tell you not to smoke for the same reasons they can eject you from the premises . The constitution grants you no right to smoke , never mind to smoke on private property .
From my understanding , an eigenvector is a vector when which multiplied by a matrix , is simply scaled by some value , which is it 's respective eigenvalue . You can think of a matrix as ( in ELI5 terms ) the guidelines for a transformation of a vector . It essentially outlines how the base of one vector space changes to another . In this case , an eigenvector will look like the same , but just scaled . As Wikipedia puts it : > The eigenvectors of a square matrix are the non - zero vectors that , after being multiplied by the matrix , remain parallel to the original vector .
Newspaper reporter here . Proof : URL_0 Journalists use Twitter as a place for information the same way we talk to people as sources . There are a lot of people on Twitter who do and say newsworthy things . Barack Obama , Pope Francis , tons of politicians , scientists and business people all have Twitter accounts . Sometimes they post things that are relevant to larger audiences . The other thing that 's great about Twitter is when breaking news happens . During the Boston Marathon bombings manhunt , average citizens posted information about what streets police shut down and provided details about what they heard and saw from places journalists could n't get to . The people on Twitter gave first - hand accounts that reporters used as leads to tell the rest of the country what was going on . Social media in general made a huge impact on the Arab Spring , which started in 2010 when citizens took to the streets in protest against various governments throughout the Middle East . Average people 's tweets and videos became the first recordings of history . It was an incredible moment that showed how social media could make such a profound impact on the world at large . Good reporters take what they see on Twitter with a grain of salt just like we treat all information we receive with a bit of skepticism . Twitter is never used as the full story but it has
Take some of the more graphic and gruesome images you have ever seen , and place them into one subreddit , with the occasional [ " HOLY SHIT ! WHAT THE FUCK IS THAT ? ! " ] ( URL_0 ) * Edit - I 'm sorry that the rest of these replies are from people that frequent spacedicks , they 're into that sort of thing .
The key idea is that this is n't about numbers : there is no number infinity . Just saying " there are different sizes of infinities " does n't really mean anything unless you have a well - defined notion of " size " and " infinity " . Rather , this is about * cardinality * , which are simple " equivalence classes of sets " : consider two sets as part of the same group if there is a way to match their elements . Then what do these groups look like ? For finite sets , we get the natural numbers as one might expect , but the weird thing is that there is more than one group of infinite sets , not all of them match up , as in Cantor 's proof that the reals are uncountable .
Shampoos and body washes contains different types of chemicals for different purposes . Like for cleaning , clearing , shine , silk etc etc . Different ingredients in them offers different functions like Sodium laureth sulfate or ammonium lauryl sulfate are used to create lather . Citric acid is used in the products as an antioxidant to save oils . Similarly so many others . Some time they are necessary like if you want to clean dirt , wipe out impurities etc . but ultimately most of the chemicals in shampoos and body washes are harmful specifically sulfate , paraben and sodium chloride . They can ultimately make your hair dry , frizzy and damaged . Last but not the least , always try to use such products that are natural and does not contain harmful chemicals as mentioned above .
Windows ME was the last version in the Windows 9x series of operating systems , which had been out for a long time and were starting to look dated . Subsequently , there was quite a lot of new stuff that Microsoft wanted to add to this verson which had nt been considered when the architecture was originally designed . When you bolt a lot of new functionality onto a piece of software that was nt designed for it you can create a lot of unexpected problems , and that 's likely what happened with Windows ME that made it buggy and unstable . Also , as someone else mentioned , Windows ME was only around for a short period of time before it was replaced with XP . Perhaps it did nt receive as many bug fixes and improvements as other operating systems might over the course of their lives . Not sure how ELI5 that is , I tried to keep it simple . I even tried to put in an analogy about making sand castles but it seemed a bit rubbish so I got rid of it :D
When dogs were first domesticated a long , long time ago they were primarily used for hunting for quite some time . After a few millennia of evolution we bred a lot of hunting based instincts into them , one of those being retrieving prey for their master . Basically , when your dog brings a stick to you it 's simulating bringing a hunted animal to you . If the dog wants you to throw it , it 's mimicking it 's natural impulse to chase after prey . If the dog wants to play tug of war with it , it simulates the prey fighting back or something trying to steal it away . ( Fun fact , if your dog ever violently shakes it head back and forth it 's trying to break the prey 's neck ) In summary , playing fetch or tug of war mimics the actions we selectively bred dogs to accomplish and gratifies them .
Maybe using fractions equality helps . Let´s say you have a lemonade stand , and you make 10 dollars worth of lemonade every day . One day you work for two hours until you make 10 dollars , and you wish to know how much , on average , you earned in an hour : you made 10 dollars in 2 hours , or 10/2 , that means you made 5 dollars every 1 hour , or 5/1 . Now , the next day you sell all of your lemonade in just half hour , so that day you made ten dollars every half hour , or 10/0.5 . Now how much did you earn per hour on the second day ? Of course you made 20 dollars per hour ( if you had worked for a full hour ) .
Bonus information : I had a friend who distributed Coke Zero , for free , for publicity and marketing purposes , and he provided me with the story of how Coke Zero came to be . Coke Zero is a diet cola . It uses artificial sweeteners just like Diet Coke . So why come up with another diet soda to compete with your own brand of diet cola ? Well , when Diet Coke came out they developed the flavor with the artificial sweetener and chemical resources they had at the time . It tastes nothing like real Coke , but it was the best they could do . By the time they came up with a formula that tasted more like regular Coke , they had such a large consumer based that was basically attached to the original flavor of Diet Coke , and they did n't want to mess with success . So , they released Coke Zero with a more authentic Coke flavor , but it 's still diet . Rather than call it something like Diet Coke II , they marketed it as Coke Zero because it is more appealing to male consumers that do n't want to associate with the non - masculine notion of drinking a diet soda . /rant
In some of the places ( like Austin ) where there 's competition from the likes of Google , they are . If there 's no competition , ISPs have no incentive to increase speeds . It is n't free for them to do it ; providing the " last mile " fiber connection to everyone 's home is a fairly significant capital outlay . And there would be some incremental outlay for higher bandwidth equipment throughout their network . So why would they do it if Google is n't coming into their market ?
Hi,Yes, it helps in reducing body weight. Glycomet is commonly prescribed to treat type-2 diabetes and polycystic ovarian disease. It helps in body weight reduction and also corrects the hormonal imbalance associated with polycystic ovary disease who are overweight.Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further. Regards,Dr. Mohammed Taher Ali, General & Family Physician
The simplest answer I believe is how life can not be grown in a test tube . When something is cloned , it has its DNA put into a female of the same species . Because there are no T - Rexs walking around , there is no way to replicate one . OR : Scientists saw the movie and realized there would be dire consequences .
Written language has always followed agriculture , since agriculture freed up so much time . Early agriculture started around places dependent on relatively regular flooding , places like Egypt and Mesopotamia had brief times of harvest in tune with the cycles of the Nile and the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers . Once cities were developed and grain was able to be stored , people had a lot more time to focus on ... really whatever the hell else they felt like . At a certain point , elites in government or religious organizations wanted to be able to keep records . Interestingly enough some cultures developed numeric systems faster than written systems , we 've found prehistoric records of tallys and the Inca system of Quipu was primarily for counting . The population of the New World arrived a lot later on the scene and because of their nomadic lifestyles , did n't adopt the same kind of storage systems that freed up time in the Old World . Obviously there are cool exceptions , like the Maya , but most of the western hemisphere was populated with hunter gatherers and slash and burn agriculture that did n't lead to setting down and developing cities . When the land is abundant and plentiful , it 's pretty easy to keep moving to follow game and find new fertile land , but as resources dwindle people tend to join together and stay put . Mesopotamia had people for a loooooong time
At that time it was n't that easy to stay undercover . Once you lived in a city or community , people knew and speak about / with you . Also the Germans had a good secret service ( GESTAPO ) and access to information . People told about people who they thought who might be Jewish or hide Jewish people in their basement . Quite a horrible time to live in .
FYI , the link you provided is to a location on your computer 's hard drive . It 's only accessible to you or other people using your computer . If you want people to be able to view it you 'll need to upload it to some website ( Dropbox for example ) or link to the original , online source that you got it from
There are a [ lot of tools ] ( URL_0 ) we can use to determine what the core of the Earth is made of . The article linked specifically mentions measuring the velocity of seismic waves that pass through it and determining its density through the way it transmits sound waves . Also remember that iron is one of the most abundant elements in the universe , and that a lot of asteroids are made up of iron . If the Earth was made through the collision and collection of a bunch of asteroids , then it 's likely there 's a ton of iron in the Earth 's core .
Generally speaking, having more institutional investors is a good sign. Of course there are many types of institutions. Normally we are thinking of mutual funds, pension funds, endowments, and hedge funds. They may not all have the same implications. Hedge funds, in particular, are out to make a buck with very little restriction on how they do it. They may buy an undervalued stock and then use their voting power to improve the company or they may do something more questionable, like pump up the stock price and then sell at the high, causing volatility. The people you are referring to may be thinking of something like the latter. Those concerns are generally small when compared with the known positives of institutional ownership.
You should also be aware that there are banks that do business in the US that do not deal with Fannie Mae, and thus are not subject to the rules about conforming loans. Here is an example of a well-known bank that lists two sets of rates, with the second being for loans of $750,000 or more (meaning the first covers everything up to that) https://home.ingdirect.com/orange-mortgage/rates
Lead interferes with your nervous system and damages bones and organs . It also has no good path out of the body and will stay in human tissues for a long time . It 's more common than others because lead was once used heavily in industrial and consumer applications . Many of those products have since switched to other materials that are not ( as ) toxic . Metals like cadmium and mercury , while equally toxic , do n't have as many applications and are simply less common in the average household .
[ Read this beer family tree chart ] ( URL_2 ) like many users have said , there 's 2 families of beer : ales & lagers . There 's over a dozen of different styles within the families from Stout to IPA to Pilsner to Lambic to etc . There 's even more sub - styles within a style . i.e. There 's Dry Irish Stout , Imperial Stout , Milk Stout , Oatmeal Stout , etc within the Stout style . They have some similar characteristics within a style , however , they CAN taste very different even within a single style . IMHO , start homebrewing ( plug [ r / homebrewing ] ( URL_1 ) ) AND drink a lot of different beer . You can also read the [ Beer Style Section ] ( URL_0 ) on BeerAdvocate .
A jet engine works by burning fuel in air . The heat generated spins a turbine . In a jet , this turbine itself provides the thrust , via a series of compressor stages , and thrust nozzles at the back of the engine to emit expanding gasses . However , they do n't work very well for low speed or light weight aircraft . A turbo prop combines the light weight and power of a jet turbine with the slow speed flight characteristics of a propeller plane . The Power of the turbine is used to turn a propeller . This gives good low speed flight , and good efficiency , combined with reliability . It 's a very simple engine in essence : Turbine gets power from fuel and air burning , spins , powers a shaft with turns a propeller . However the detail of making these engines powerful , efficient and reliable means that they 're actually absolute precision engineering .
Adolf Hitler , and the circumstances which put him in power , did n't develop in a bubble . Antisemitism and many other ideas that were to be adopted by the Nazis were common and widespread in central Europe during the 19th and 20th centuries . In the 19th century , now - discredited theories on race said that different races of people had certain inherent qualities and abilities , and that races could be organized into a hierarchy ( with white , Germanic European people , which they called Aryans , at the top ) . Jews , Slavs and Roma were considered to be racially inferior to Aryans and at the bottom of the hierarchy , meaning Aryans had the right to rule over them and were being brought down by having to share a country with them . Jews in particular were thought of as being natural manipulators who exploited the work of " superior " Aryans . The 19th and early 20th centuries were also a time when Europe was in a frenzy over the growth of Communism . Many people saw Communism as being something spread by Jews as a means of controlling the world . Hitler , his predecessors and his contemporaries saw fighting Communism and fighting Judaism as one in the same ; Hitler himself described the enemy as " Jewish Marxism " . This would have went into overdrive following the Russian revolution of 1917 , in which people like Leon Trotsky
It's required by law. 12 USC 1759 (b) requires that membership in a credit union be limited to one or more groups with a "common bond", or to people within a particular geographic area. For lots more gory details on how this is interpreted and enforced, you can read the manual given to credit unions by the National Credit Union Administration, which is their regulatory agency.
HIThank for asking to HCMI really appreciate your concern for your skin condition this could be skin infection and you have used the wrong drug for this and this must have been flair up with that, if I would be your doctor then I would treat you with the following drugs,1) Tab Cefdinir 300 mg twice in day for five days 2) Povidone ointment, to be applied locally hope this information helps you, take care and have nice day.
The confusion relates to the fact that Mayans had multiple calendar systems . The Tzolk'in system works on a 240 - day count and does not seem to follow any astronomical cycle . The Haab ' system works on a 365 day count that closely approximates the solar year . The systems are combined to form a Calendar Round that lasts about 52 years . For periods longer than that , the long count calendar was used . Each cycle on the long count calendar lasts about 394 years . The last cycle ended on December 21 , 2012 .
part of the reason Einstein 's theory of relativity is so groundbreaking is because of the sweeping changes it makes to almost all observable phenomena . The easiest way to summarize it is " because nothing can go faster than the speed of light , when things start moving very fast , they can appear quite different than they should , " or more generally , " the observer of an event matters almost as much as the event itself . " I 'm not a great expert in relativity , we only touched on it briefly in physics , and many of the things I 've learned took a long time and are usually ' inspiration ' based , where you get that " aha ! " moment . In response to your time traveling question , theoretically if particles can be made with negative mass , then you can travel backwards in time according to some theorists . EDIT : found it , the expansion and contraction of space requires particles of positive and negative mass , URL_0 here 's the Simple Wikipedia link to Einstein 's theory , which attempts to EILI5 : URL_1
In this example I 'll refer to files and " boxes " , the boxes being containers for parts of the files . You have 100 empty boxes . You have a file , and it takes two boxes to store it , so your computer puts it in box 1 and box 2 . Now you make another file , your computer puts it in box 3 and 4 and 5 . Next you go to the first file and add on to it , it ca n't just put information in order , as box 3 is full , so it puts the last part in box 6 . Now if you ask your computer to bring you the first file , it has to find part of it , then go look elsewhere to find the rest , this takes some time . Defragging effectively reorganizes your files in a way that makes it easier for your harddrive to quickly give you the files you ask for .
Thanks for your query, I have gone through your query.The exact cause of fissured tongue is unknown, But it can occur in association with melkernson rosenthal syndrome an geographic tongue. It can occur at any age(both healthy and non healthy conditions). The burning sensation can be because of the superadded fungal infection like candidiasis. So consult a oral physician and get yourself examined to rule out the above said conditions.The burning sensation can be solved by maintaining the tongue hygiene, using topical antifungal like clotrimazole 1% ointment 3-4times daily for a week, and topical anesthetic and analgesic like 2%lignocaine gel, apply 3-4times daily for a week. Do saline gargling.I hope my answer will help you, take care.
The code consists of 6 digits . Each byte is represented by 2 hex digits - so a colour code consists of 3 bytes of information . And then , the first byte ( first / second digits ) simply corresponds to how much red is in the colour , the second byte corresponds to green , and the last byte ( final two digits ) is the blue .
Americans have a love - hate relationship with American auto manufacturers . It started in ernest in the late 70 's with the OPEC crises and the rush to produce inexpensive fuel efficient cars . Somewhere along the way companies like Chrysler started producing cars with efficiencies and cost - per - unit as the main design factor . This is when the notorious K - car came to be . After which , Americans felt betrayed that their beloved companies would produce ugly , cheap cars even though many were actually decent from an engineering standpoint . Not all , but some . Europe and Japan and then more recently S. Korea swoop in and fill the void , further undermining our pride . Fast forward to new gas crunch and a new sense that gas guzzling American SUV 's and large vehicles are not the future . Tesla has headed the call with these amazing electric cars . The look awesome . Their tech is awesome . They renew a sense of American pride in auto making . And they are from Silicon Valley and as the tech cred that comes with that . This is why Reddit is on fire with Tesla . Once they establish a true market in the US and start to ramp up sales , I guarantee you that Europe and Asia will soon follow .
Think about what would happen if you designed a bridge that was able to support a couple people walking across it at the same time and then you drove a fully loaded semi across it . That 's basically what static discharge does to electronics - you take something designed for a small load and you briefly put a load that is orders of magnitude larger across it . It might not fail immediately , but it is certainly weakened and highly more likely to fail in the future . [ The huge amount of voltage being delivered into a fragile piece of metal can cause a significant part of the metal path to basically vaporize or turn into slag ] ( URL_0 ) , which can cause power to go places where it is n't expected or not go where it is expected . Anti - static bands basically give electricity that has built up on you a path to leave . Your clothes rubbing together can build up static charge on you that ca n't overcome the insulating property of your shoes , but if you touch an electronic device that can conduct it will jump to that path of least resistance . Putting on an ESD strap always gives the static electricity that builds up on you an immediate and low - resistance path to leave you so that there is minimal if any build - up on you as you 're working with those electronic devices
Yes , and there is an argument to be made that we have already reached that limit for common screen sizes . The human eye has an angular resolution of approximately 1 arcsecond . An arcsecond is a division of a circle . A circle is broken up into 360 degrees . A degree is broken up into 60 arcminutes . An arcminute is broken up into 60 arcseconds . So an arcsecond is 1/1,296,000 of a circle . Using a bit of trigonometry you can figure out just how big an arcsecond is at a given distance . Most people have their TVs somewhere between 8 and 15 feet away from the couch . At those distances , 1080i resolution is usually too much already . You 're wasting some of the resolution because your eye ca n't make out the details . A smart guy named Bernard Lechner already worked out the optimal distance for a given screen size . You can view the chart he created [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . Computers and cell phones are a bit different because their much closer to your eye . But , the same principle holds . There 's a certain maximum resolution over which it 's just a waste .
To understand this , you have to understand what exactly a seizure is . Not all seizures are the " shaking uncontrollably and wetting yourself " type ( grand mal ) that you see in movies and tv shows . Seizures are characterized by aberrant , synchronous neuronal activity in the brain and the outward symptoms can range from a momentary loss of time all the way up to muscular convulsions . The best analogy I can think of for an ELI5 level is that part of the brain gets stuck in a feedback loop that grows with each cycle in a chain - reaction . Sometimes these ' feedback loops ' have a trigger , such as flashing lights or certain musical tones , but many times there is no identifiable trigger . We do know that seizures are more common in people who have a lower excitation threshold in their brain ( if you want to know more about excitation thresholds , feel free to message me but the concept is a bit too complex for ELI5 ) . If a normal person looks at a flashing light they might end up with a headache , while someone with a seizure disorder may experience a seizure . Again , the seizure may be something as subtle as the person staring off into space for a few moments and not realizing the lost time . Basically the brain has to respond to stimuli , and sometimes due to brain
The Yakuza thing is true , and in the past tattoos were used to brand criminals . So , traditionally people with tattoos are criminals . However this is changed a lot . Many Japanese people have a tattoo as a fashion statement . Of course , upper class people tending to have less tattoos is not only a Japanese thing , so some people will still look down on it .
First , most of the pins fall because they are hit by other pins , not because the ball hits them . This means that getting good pin action increases your chance of a strike . If you hit the headpin dead on , you 'll drive through the rack and leave the corners untouched . If you hit the pocket , the headpin will take care of the left side ( for a right - handed bowler ) of the rack , and the 3 pin and the ball will take care of the right side .
Jup . If you try to Google it , there is a Lot of stuff on the internet dealing with lucid dreaming and how it can be trained . I will Give you a Quick sum up . So , lucid dreaming means the state in a dream where you know you Are in a dream . Usually this results in you waking up , but sometimes and for some People they stay in the dream state . Staying in the dream gives you the ability to influence the outcome . For example : I often had the Same Dreams over and over as a Child , often involving dinosaurs . At some point i realised it is a dream , and that i can do what I want . So if something happened I knew it would , and I could alter the course of the dream to my wish . Crazy stuff happened , in puberty the dinosaurs mostly changed to naked women but at some point i just went back to regulär Dreams . Now how do you train it ? I am far from an expert here , but as far as I know you should start with writing a dream diary . Immediatly After you wake up Focus on the dream , writing it down or speaking it into a recording Device . Do this every night and you will start to remember your Dreams more vividly . It takes time , but if you
I can only really explain the calorie part . Companies who want more precise measurements may use fancier equipment , but we did this basic experiment in my p - chem class . They use something called a bomb calorimeter . They take a sample of something and place it in the calorimeter . This calorimeter contains water and a thermometer . They use oxygen to burn the sample . The energy from that is directed into the water . They can then use the temperature change in the water so determine the caloric content of the food sample .
When you buy shares of a company , you become an owner of a small piece of that company . The value of your share may go up if the company does well and may go down if the company does badly . Some companies pay out some of their profits to their owners each year . Owning shares is complicated and you have to watch out for lots of things which can affect the value of your shares such as management announcements , competitor announcements , trends in the market and many other things . Penny stocks are cheap but risky shares . Any hopeful investor needs to either do a lot of research and reading on the topic . Possibly in places like r / investing ( if it exists ) . Or they need to invest through a fund which can take care of the management for them .
Tension has been pretty high between the police and citizens of Orange County . Last year we had Kelly Thomas beaten to death by the Fullerton PD . Now people are claiming that police killed two unarmed guys . People are protesting and the police are responding in force . There has been an escalation of militarization of the police . It went from riot gear to full on military uniforms with M4s . There are also people claiming that the police have planted people within the protestors to cause problems . While you might see a lot of people blaming the protestors for the violence , you have to ask yourself " Who has the guns ? Who has been hurt ? "
Remember , this question is n't entirely logical . It makes perfect sense in its structure , grammar and syntax , but it may be similar to asking " What number is the smell of fear ? " Essentially , you 're asking what " into " is expanding " into . " Wow , yeah , that clarified things ( sorry , I 'm trying , I 'm definitely not a teacher ) .... Stickychar had the right idea about a balloon . Imagine you have a barely inflated balloon and you draw a bunch of dots on it with a sharpie . If you existed on the surface of that balloon , each dot representing a star , the stars would drift away from you as it inflated . But the balloon is n't taking up anymore space than it took up before ( here the analogy fails a bit because we 're talking about volume , not actual space ) , you 've simply push air into it where before that air was outside of it . The mass of the balloon , and therefore the space it occupies , has n't changed . Space does n't need to expand into space , because it makes it 's own . It 's space .
Certain foods are more appropriate for other times because of the way our body digests it . Meat requires more work internally to process , so it 's best later in the day , while staple foods like bread , rice etc release carbohydrates more gradually , making them great breakfast foods . The latter is especially important to me as I 'm type-1 diabetic , so knowing what foods release carbs at what relative rate can mean the difference between a normal day and one frantically struggling to regulate my blood sugar .
Based on random chance , your genetic code has multiple encoding errors . Some of these errors are going to be bad , potentially crippling , genetic defects . Luckily for you , you get two copies of each gene , one from each parent . In most cases the good gene you get from your other parent is dominant , meaning it covers up the defective gene . So imagine you get an extremely rare genetic mutation that causes a crippling disease . Also we 'll say you have 4 kids , two sons and two daughters . Each of your kids get a copy of each gene from you and one from your spouse . If they happen to inherit the defective version of a gene from you , your spouse will likely give them the good version and they 'll be all be okay . Based on random chance , there 's a 50/50 chance that each of your kids gets the bad gene from you . So odds are that two have it . Let 's say 1 son and 1 daughter each get it . Now those two siblings have a child together . The child has a 50/50 shot of getting the bad gene from the mother and a 50/50 shot of getting it from the father . So a 25 % chance of exhibiting the trait . This is much higher than the chance from non - siblings . If we assume the
There are a variety of reasons . - Do it just to do it . Akin to graffiti . - To make money . This can be via a variety of means from stealing your password / info to sending out spam . - Espionage . Steal trade secrets ( as was recently done to US chemical companies ) and/or destroy equipment ( as was recently done to Iran 's uranium centrifuges ) . - Cause mayhem . Shut down people you do not like or just plain wanting to cause trouble .
There are two types of satellites providing phone service , constellation and geostationary . Geostationary satellites work well because from our perspective on the ground they are fixed in one point in the sky . The way they achieve this is by orbiting so far out , that each orbit takes 24 hours . The problem is that this is so far out ( 35,000 miles ) you need a large quasi - directional antenna to get a signal . Constellation satellites fly much lower , but their orbits are shorter meaning they are only overhead for brief periods of time . They make up for this by having dozens of satellites , all in offset overlapping orbits . However you are still looking at a range to satellite being anywhere from 500 - 1000 miles . Your typical cell tower is less than 2 miles away . Your phone needs much less power to talk to one of those than to beam a signal out into space .
I don't like REITs because they are more closely correlated to the movement of the stock market. They don't really do the job of diversifying a portfolio because of that correlation. When the stock market dropped in 2008, REITs were hammered as well because the housing bubble burst. Bonds went up, and if you rebalanced (sold the bonds to buy more stock) then you came out much further ahead when the stock market recovered. The point of adding bonds for diversification is that they move in the opposite direction of equities; blunting the major drops (and providing buying opportunities). REITs don't fit that bill. REITs are not undergoing a correction like bonds because the price of real estate is a function of housing supply and buyer demand. Rising interest rates only make it a little harder for buyers to buy, so the effect of rising interest rates on real estate prices is muted. The other effects on real estate prices (more wealth in the economy for buyers) pushes in the opposite direction of the rising interest rates.
You 're selling goods that will be presumably made later . If I 'm a farmer I want to know I can sell my crop before it rots in the silo or whatever so I might sell my crop of corn before it 's even matured yet just to make sure I will sell all of it . The benefit to the farmer is knowing that they 'll sell and for how much , and the benefit for the buyer is knowing they have a certain amount they 'll receive and at what cost . Working it out when the corn is sitting on the stalk waiting for harvest , and especially working it out when it 's harvested and sitting around , can be a bit hectic .
Keep in mind that Canada does n't have " socialized medicine . " Unlike Britain or France , most of our doctors ' practices , walk - in clinics and hospitals are privately owned . What Canada has is * partially * socialized insurance . Or in American terms , " Medicare for all . " Think of this as what Obama [ campaigned on in 2008 ] ( URL_1 ) . A universal public insurance system . Except that Obama was unable to get that through Congress . So he went with the Republican alternative . What we now call ObamaCare is also best described as " 15 years of Republican healthcare policy up until the moment Obama adopted it . " The plan mirrors RomneyCare , hailed by Republicans as a shining example of How It Should Be Done using private enterprise . ( Until Obama adopted it , at which point it suddenly became commie marxist socialism . ) It 's very similar to a proposal made to candidate McCain by the Health Insurance lobby , and the Republican alternative to ClintonCare . A plan based entirely on corporate insurance companies . A plan that would have been introduced as " McCainCare " had McCain won the election . Even the individual mandate now derided by Republicans as " unconstitutional " [ was Republican policy ] ( URL_0 ) before Obama adopted it . It 's the old system - corporate insurance companies - with some reforms
Their wealth is privately held . Maybe one or two of their companies trade on the market , but if your wealth is private , nobody knows what you have . The Mars ( candy ) family is another case ; they have been a private company all this time and only have to disclose to the tax man .
A lot of social programs in the US work by taxing the working population to support the elderly . For example , when paying into Social Security , you are n't paying into a retirement account for yourself , you 're paying into an account for everyone . As long as more money is paid into the system than is paid out of it , this is fine - the extra money goes into a " just in case " fund , and the program is funded . However , if there 's not enough money going in or too much going out , the program has to use the " just in case " fund . If the fund runs out , the program either has to raise income , lower payments , or change in some other way . For example , with Social Security , more has been paid into the system for a long time , so the " just in case " fund is large ( or would be if congress had n't raided it , but we 'll ignore that for now ) . Even though the first person to get money from Social Security took out more than she paid in , it was find because so many more people were paying into it than paying out of it . However , last year we actually started paying out more than we paid in to Social Security , so we had to start
As you have indicated, the 1042-S reflects no income or withholding. As such, you are not required to file a US tax return unless you have other income from the US. Gains on stocks are not reported until realized upon sale. FYI, your activity does not fit the requirements of being engaged in a trade or business activity. While the definition is documented in several places of the Code, I have attached Publication 519 which most accurately represents the application to your situation as you have described it. https://www.irs.gov/publications/p519/ch04.html#en_US_2016_publink1000222308
The empirical rule says that if you go 1 standard deviation out from the mean that you will capture 68 % of your data , Go out one more stan dev ( that s 2 so far ) and you will capture 95 % of your data , go out one more ( that s 3 so far ) and you will capture 99.7 % of your data . Well lets try a problem . you ask a bunch of young children how many gifts they got for Xmas . Lets say that the average ( mean ) answer is 10 gifts . The stand dev is 3 . This means that you start at 10 and go one standard deviation in both directions ( 1 up an 1 down ) . 1 standard deviation from the mean in both directions will give you 7 and 13 . Why ? Because the mean is 10 and the stan dev is 3 and three above the mean is 13 and 3 below the mean is 7 . Now , out of all the kids that we asked this question to 68 % of all those kids answered that they received 7 to 13 gifts . How did I know this ? Because 1 standard deviation away ( remember you have to go in both directions ) will capture 68 % of the data . Now , lets go 2 standard deviations away . If the mean is 10 and the stand
Well , lemme see if I can help . All sounds are made of vibrations that move through the air and into you ear . Good so far ? Those vibrations can be pretty simple ( like a long , single note beep ) or they can be really complex ( like a song ) . Now , the earliest recording equipment used a funnel and a needle . Sound would go into the funnel and make the needle vibrate , and that needle would scratch a wax surface and leave a line . To play it back , you 'd put the needle back in the line , and move it along the surface . The line would shake the needle , and the needle would shake the funnel , making it vibrate the air and make sounds . Now , the big problem with those old recordings was that storing those needle scratches on wax took up a lot of space . If you 've ever seen an old record , you know that some of them are as big as a dinnerplate , and they still can only hold a few minutes worth of sound on each side ! Well , as time went on , people figured out how to make records that held more music by spinning faster , and using thinner needles , and eventually they figured out how to record those vibrations using a magnetic tape . The problem is that the sound
There are several ways . One works really well for closer things . It 's called [ parallax ] ( URL_0 ) . If we see a star in the sky in March and note where it is compared to background stars and then measure how far it has moved against the background stars when we look again in September , when the Earth is on the other side of the Sun , we can use trigonometry to calculate how far away it is . For things that are much farther away , like galaxies , parallax does n't work anymore . The diameter of the Earths orbit around the Sun is too small compared to the distance to those objects for us to measure any difference . So one of the ways we use for galaxies is called a [ standard candle . ] ( URL_1 ) If we know how bright a star is intrinsically we can tell how far away it is by how bright it appears to us here on earth . Because its brightness decreases by a known amount related to how far away it is called the inverse - square law . There are other ways we can measure galactic distances as well , but the two I described will at least give you an idea of how it can be done .
Since the inception of Israel , the US has not recognized sovereignty over Jerusalem by Israel , Palestine , or Jordan . Because of this , there are certain matters where Jerusalem is not referred to as a part of Israel . For instance , [ U.S. residents who were born in Jerusalem have " Jerusalem " listed in their passports -- not " Jerusalem , Israel . " ] ( URL_0 ) '' I assume declaring Jerusalem to be the capital of Israel will standardize the entire government 's policy towards the matter .
When other people hear your voice , the sound gets transmitted to them through the air . But when you hear your own voice , much of the sound gets transmitted to your ear by bone ( your jaw and skull ) rather than through the air . Because bone transmits sound differently to air , the way you hear your voice is different to how everyone else hears it . When you hear a recording of your voice , you are hearing the same as everyone else hears . You do n't like it , though , because it 's unfamiliar , it 's not the way you think you sound .
Thermal energy is dependent not just on how high the temperature is , but also how much stuff there is . A bathtub full of water will have more thermal energy than a teacup full of water at the same temperature . An iceberg is not very hot ( and keep in mind that thermal energy ca n't be negative . Something that 's below freezing is still above absolute zero . ) , but it is very , very big . Even though it has less thermal energy per unit mass than a cup of hot cocoa , it has so much more mass to make up for it .
The World Bank has found that the one thing that correlates most with the growth of the middle class is tertiary education . The middle class is the economic heart of developed economies . Educated people add value , in the economic sense that their activities attract higher prices , which helps the economy to grow . By contrast , less educated people are able to add less value and their work is more likely to be vulnerable to substitution ( from automation , or from low cost workers elsewhere ) because it is more like a commodity .
There 's little to no evidence to support so called organics are better in anyway . In fact , the opposite is generally true . Blind taste test also favors non organics . Just what do you think we 've been improving ? We improved nutrient value , taste , size , and growth of our fruit and crops . It 's much more efficient to plant and eat non organic produce . Feel free ro down vote , voting on facts means little .
* Degree * as an English word just means " amount , level , or extent " of something . It comes from the Latin * de * + * gradus * , " step down " or " step from " , i.e. a set of incremented steps to measure some quantity . It 's used for a lot more than just temperature and angles , too . Check out [ Degree ] ( URL_0 ) on Wikipedia . Alcohol concentration , sugar concentration , density , curvature , etc . etc . Very widespread use .
I live a few miles from Anaheim and have seen different takes on it : Citizens of Anaheim : Two of our fellow citizens got tragically and senselessly shot to death by cops . Police : We were out making sure everything was happy in the world when we saw two bad guys and took them out so everyone was safer ! Reactionaries : Two wonderful , peaceful people were reading their Bibles while feeding the poor when GODLESS POLICE burst onto the scene and killed literally everyone . Anarchists : Police kill everyone , it 's up to us to overthrow our oppressors ! * insert Chomsky quote or anarchist lyrics * Disneyland Visitor : LET 'S GO SEE MICKEY MOUSE LOL ( this is why I do n't have children ... )
No person who has claimed to be able to survive without food and water has actually demonstrated it . Those who did attempt to demonstrate surviving without food or water were caught cheating ( sneaking out of the test settings to get fast food , for instance ) In ideal circumstances(eg : decent humidity , and minimal physical activity ) , the human body can survive about a week without water , and about a month without food- at those points , your body runs out of water for important processes , and has been damaging your body by breaking it down for energy .
Speaker recognition is the identification of a person from characteristics of voices. It is used to answer the question "Who is speaking?" The term voice recognition can refer to speaker recognition or speech recognition. Speaker verification (also called speaker authentication) contrasts with identification, and speaker recognition differs from speaker diarisation (recognizing when the same speaker is speaking). Recognizing the speaker can simplify the task of translating speech in systems that have been trained on specific voices or it can be used to authenticate or verify the identity of a speaker as part of a security process. Speaker recognition has a history dating back some four decades as of 2019 and uses the acoustic features of speech that have been found to differ between individuals. These acoustic patterns reflect both anatomy and learned behavioral patterns.
You start with an already unstable isotope of uranium . Now add more neutrons to the already unstable isotope and the nucleus freaks out and falls apart . All the neutrons that were once in the atom fly around and fuck up all the other uranium around it . Those atoms fall apart and release more neutrons which fuck up more atoms . You now have a very destructive chain reaction . Feel free to ask me about anything you do n't understand , I 'm on mobile right now and will try to answer once I get home . EDIT : Sat down and typed it out a bit more clearly .
The channel was created by Australian - American media mogul Rupert Murdoch , who is known for his conservative slant . Many journalists have accused the network of having a bias favoring the political right and the Republican Party . Fox News has publicly denied such charges , stating that the reporters in the newsroom provide separate , neutral reporting . In general , they have been caught lying , or at the very least , hiring pundits who share their views on the air with very little facts to back them up . They have a poor reputation for fact - checking , and often say or gloss over sensationalist and vague statements which embarrass many hard - core journalists . While this is true for almost every news outlet , and has for the history of newspapers ( look up " Yellow Journalism " at some point for some historical shenanigans ) , Fox News has seemed to taken this in a bold new direction . They have been accused to spreading fear and paranoia , slanting heavily into conservative values , and having a very heavy pro - Christan , anti - Islamic bias . Liberal groups have further used this to sell their points of view , often using the more extreme lines as proof that Fox News is really what 's ruining America . Thus , some conservatives do n't like Fox News either , because it make some liberals even louder ( and some
Let 's first ask why RAM exists in the first place . When you run a program , the CPU and sometimes GPU do computations . These computations happen very fast , and the information that needs to be loaded into the CPU needs to be very fast as well . This loading of information and also writing of information needs to be far faster than any hard drive or flash drive will allow . This is why RAM was made . RAM reads and writes memory in a completely different way than a flash drive , and while it has less volume , it is very very very fast . There are computers with 128 GB of RAM though . I could go in as to how both work , but this explanation seems sufficient . TL;DR : They record and read memory completely different .
The deadline to mail is February 15. However, if the form is being prepared by a middleman (i.e. Wells Fargo) then they have until March 15th (on page 24). Also, if you haven't received your 1099 form by February 14, you may contact the IRS and they will contact and request the missing form on your behalf. I know that's a lot of information, but to answer your question, yes, there are situations where March 15th is the deadline instead of February 15th.
Sure you can add water , but how are you going to do it ? Water is 8 pounds per gallon , and it currently costs about $ 10,000 per pound to sent something into Earth orbit ... in other words , you could buy a new Tesla for the cost of sending one gallon of water into Earth orbit ... nevermind the cost of getting it to another planet . One theoretical idea is to crash a bunch of comets , which are mostly ice , into a planet . This is a leading theory as to how Earth got much of its water . However , we currently do n't have the technology or the resources to divert a single comet meaningfully , nevermind enough comets to bombard a planet with a usable amount of water . TL;DR : It may be a doable to import water to planets in the future , but current technology is definitely not up to the task yet . Also , given a planet with the right conditions , we may be able to introduce bacteria to do the hard work for us ... after all , it was cyanobacteria that gave us an oxygen - rich atmosphere on Earth . The downside is that this would take millions of years to make a meaningful change to a CO2 rich atmosphere that planets like Venus or Mars or young Earth have / had .
' Twas oft asked here . Ye may enjoy these : 1 . [ ELI5 : Why would a city planner choose a one way street over a two way street ? ] ( URL_1 ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why are one - way roads a thing ? Why are n't all streets just two - way streets ? ] ( URL_2 ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why are most streets in NYC one - way streets ? ] ( URL_3 ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Advantages and Disadvantages of One Way Streets vs. Two Way Streets ] ( URL_0 )
HTML defines content , CSS decorates it and helps tell how it is displayed . CSS stands for Cascading Stylesheet . This means that there is a hierarchy of style attributes overwriting other attributes that affect the same elements . Think of it like this . Bob Ross does an oil painting and starts off with a canvas covered in liquid white . This is the lowest level on the hierarchy . It applies to the entire body of the painting , like a class applied to the body tag . On that he paints some divs of class " mountain " . The mountain class has the attribute paint - color : Van Dyke Brown . Since the div is within body the paint - color : Van Dyke Brown attribute overwrites the liquid white and you see the Van Dyke Brown over the liquid white . He adds some divs of class " happy little tree " which are growing wherever they like , which happens to be on the mountains , so these happy little tree divs are within the mountain divs . Their paint - color : Sap Green is within the mountain div , so where the happy little tree divs are is painted with Sap Green on top of the Van Dyke Brown mountains . Then Bob adds another happy little tree div . This one he wants to be Alizarin Crimson because its his world and it can be whatever fucking color he
Scientist call it a theory meaning that it 's a collection of facts that prove everything we know about a particular subject ( evolution , germ theory , etc . ) Essentially , it 's like a book full of essays and stories all relating to the same theme such as funny jokes or how the TSA manhandled you at the airport . Different authors , different angles , but all pointing to the same idea . Newspaper , media , and journalist everywhere have an entirely different definition of theory . To them , a theory is a working idea of what s going on in the world * * BUT * * with missing pieces . For example , a journalist may be investigating in where blood diamond are coming from . They know that diamond corporations are collecting them and they 're coming from a particular country , but they do n't know where the site is and how many people are being enslaved to harvest the diamonds , nor who 's in charge and what s changing hands . To the newspaper editor , this whole story is just a " theory " because there 's no concrete evidence of such a thing occurring . And since this is the media , this definition is what most people use and understands whenever they hear the word " theory " . So when a scientific article pops up with the title " Proving the Theory of Evolution
Imagine two guys , Joe and Bob , who are huge rivals . They 've been rivals since they were kids , and as they got older , their rivalry grew into a bitter fear and almost hatred . However , no matter how bad their animosity , it was n't like they could just outright try to kill each other . Instead , they end up engaging in all sorts of one - upsmanship while talking a big game . They get their friends and acquaintances to not patronize each others ' businesses . They have friends put bad reviews online . Their kids are on competing high school sports teams , and they egg their kids on if they get into fights ( while never actually fighting each other -- that could go too far ) . Bob blows all of his cash buying expensive houses and expensive suits . Joe ca n't stand this , so he starts buying expensive cars so that he can keep up in this display . Eventually , Bob blows so much of his cash buying expensive stuff that he starts to go broke . Eventually , the cold war ends with the two agreeing that it was silly and getting out of hand . The two are n't exactly best buds , and Joe 's friends and Bob 's friends do n't exactly have the easiest time hanging out together , but over time these things just sort of petered out
Stocks in the Weimar hyperinflation are discussed in When Money Dies. I don't own a copy of the book but here is a link to a blog post about it. Speculation on the stock exchange has spread to all ranks of the population and shares rise like air balloons to limitless heights Basically, the stock market did very well (i.e. the US dollar value of stocks increased quite a lot. Of course, the price of everything increased if measured in marks.) Quote from the article: Bottom line: In marks, stocks had an amazing run. Even in USD they had a nice runup. It makes sense that the stock market would skyrocket because (a) if money has no value, then people will want to replace money with tangible things like goods, and since a stock represents a share in the factories and things which a company owns, it makes sense that you would want them and (b) if money has no value anyway, why not gamble with it? I would be interested to hear what happened in other hyperinflations.
Short Answer : The media is biased . Long Answer : It all depends on your perspective . If you 're with the government , the enemy is insurgents or rebels . If you 're against the government , those same people are freedom fighters . I 've heard some Brits refer to the American Revolution as " The War of American Insurrection " for the same reason . Likewise , most terrorists do n't call themselves terrorists .
14 Year Telecom Professional here . I have worked on wireless , optical systems , switched networks , and I had a stint as a systems / network administrator . Telephone networks depend on what you mean . There are cell phone networks , and there are land line networks , and there are data networks . While many people have transitioned away from land lines at their home , most people still use them at their jobs . Increasingly , many land - lines and cell phone signals are being run over data networks , but they still interface with the " traditional " phone networks and must be able to interface with those networks correctly to complete a call . In simplest terms , Cell phone networks are just a different way of taking your data / call back to the same type of systems that handle your land line calls , or cable / dsl internet at home . Wireless signal carriers do have a limit that is governed by physics on how fast the signal can transmit that signal through the air . Air is a finnicky medium , as it has things like water vapor , rain , and buildings in it . Currently , more because of the expense of upgrading data backhaul networks past the tower , the fastest is around 30 megabits per second . When you make a call from a cell phone , it has to travel back to your
It 's like [ /r / atheism](/r / atheism ) discovered that Niel DeGrasse Tyson and Carl Sagan are the same guy . Basically , both accounts were very well known , and were very prolific posters . Finding out a minor novelty account belongs to a certain person is no biggie . Finding the same thing out about two ' Reddit celebs ' is like finding out Angelina Jolie and Rick Moranis are the same person . Hence , shock .
ESR is a nonspecific test indicating the presence of an inflammatory condition. This could be due to an infection or to many other causes. The inflammatory process and the change in ESR could be due to the infection and would occur regardless of antibiotic treatment- it is part of the body's response to the infection. If the infection clears up with treatment, the inflammatory process will start to clear up, but signs of it such as the ESR may take some time to return to normal. The ESR is not useful for following the course of an infection. Again, it may also be due to an entirely different condition from the infection, such as arthritis, lupus, response to injuries, etc etc. Hope this helps.
Personal data, also known as personal information or personally identifiable information (PII), is any information related to an identifiable person. The abbreviation PII is widely accepted in the United States, but the phrase it abbreviates has four common variants based on personal or personally, and identifiable or identifying. Not all are equivalent, and for legal purposes the effective definitions vary depending on the jurisdiction and the purposes for which the term is being used. [a] Under European and other data protection regimes, which centre primarily on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the term "personal data" is significantly broader, and determines the scope of the regulatory regime. National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-122 defines personally identifiable information as "any information about an individual maintained by an agency, including (1) any information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, or biometric records; and (2) any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial, and employment information." For instance, a user's IP address is not classed as PII on its own, but is classified as a linked PII. Personal data is defined under the GDPR as "any information which [is] related to an identified or identifiable natural person". The IP address of an Internet subscriber may be classes as personal data. The concept of PII has become prevalent as information technology and the Internet
Nighttime erections are called [ nocturnal penile tumescence ] ( URL_0 ) and occur reflexively during REM sleep . Erections are controlled by the parasympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system . This reflex has nothing to do with preventing urination , as urination is also controlled by PSNS activation . The erections are basically the body 's way of ' flexing ' the penile muscle , and double checking healthy blood flow to the area . The erections have nothing to do with arousal in a sexual manner , it is basically a health check . NPTs can also be used to determine if a man who is suffering from erectile dysfuntion is having problems due to something phsyiological ( such as blood flow , nerve damage , etc ) or if his ED is more psychological .
/r / asksocial science is a better place for this question . Also it has been answered before here - URL_0 SOME ISSUES AFRICA HAS FACED * * Unfavourable geography to begin with**- Sahara desert isolates Sub Saharan Africa from Europe and Asia . Its a very wide continent unlike Europe which is narrow with many peninsulas . There is more poverty in landlocked areas and less trade * * Colonial History**- European states colonized all of Africa apart from Ethiopia which is the only African nation to not be colonized and Liberia which was set up by the US for returning slaves . During colonization raw materials were taken from Africa and brought to Europe to make manufactured goods . These goods could then be sold around the world including in the colonies itself . Legacy of colonies has created problems . Less national unity as Europeans drew arbitrary borders , placing different ethnic groups in countries , and seperating others over borders . European colonizers would use African elites to rule countries . The people living by the coast or where the Europeans first settled and built a city would usually be chosen as a ruling class . Favouring different ethnic groups has caused problems * * Neocolonialism**- African nations got independance in the 60 's yet not everything changed . Some have called this " flag independance " . Basically former colonial states have still continued profitting from African countries . Natural resources are exploited by foreign
Because under extreme stress , contraction of more muscles than are being targeted , works to maintain tightness and prevents you from being exposed to injury . And because the body is one big unit , muscles work synergistically , even facial and neck muscles . Try tightening your fist as tightly as possible , you may notice more muscles than just your forearm will contract .
They invest a lot of money that you give them . Instead of investing $ 100 for 0.01 % return , they invest $ 10 million and get 60 % return . Not to mention term insurance , where you pay for 10 years , and if you do n't die during then , you lose that money . They keep that money .
As Chris pointed out: If your expenses are covered by the income exactly, as you have said to assume, then you are basically starting with a $40K asset (your starting equity), and ending with a $200K asset (a paid for home, at the same value since you have said to ignore any appreciation). So, to determine what you have earned on the $40K you leveraged 5x, wouldn't it be a matter of computing a CAGR that gets you from $40K to $200K in 30 years? The result would be a nominal return, not a real return. So, if I set up the problem correctly, it should be: $40,000 * (1 + Return)^30 = $200,000 Then solve for Return. It works out to be about 5.51% or so.
Hello, I have studied your case. Foot and leg swelling suggest internal disease process.You need to consult your doctor before any other complication arises.Due to compression of this nerve root there is pain in your foot.Physiotherapy like ultrasound and interferential therapy will give quick relief.I will advise to check your vit B12 and vit D3 level.Ultrasonography leg will help to rule out other pathology leading to pain like deep vein thrombosis.Hope this answers your query. If you have additional questions or follow up queries then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your queries. Wishing you good health.Take care
For the same reason we used to tell people to just comply with airplane hijackers - the risk of being armed and making into a fight outweighed the cost of paying ransoms . Merchant ships have run armed in the past - particularly in WW1 and 2 when they needed to shoot at german ships or be sunk themselves . And prior to that merchant shipping ran armed in the age of sail . But in the modern world piracy has been mostly rare , and mostly financial . World Navies have ( slowly ) started to take Piracy seriously , and the big hub is Somalia , although there is lots of piracy other places , that mostly falls under the jurisdiction of a government that actually exists . For the moment the plan is not to make merchant ships into a shooting war . If merchant ships carried guns , the pirates would try and carry bigger guns . There are lots of rules in ports about not having guns - most of that is because people do n't want guns moving in or out of their country - even legal ones . The risk of arms smuggling or fights breaking out at the port between armed sailors etc . far outweighed the value guns - which was none . Times change , laws may need to change to keep up with it .
Remember it is no good just getting plants to take up CO2 if they end up releasing greenhouse gases back into the air eventually , eg when they rot . Wood is good as it can replace some fossil fuel usage but soft plant material is less of a solution . What is really needed is permanent sequestration , ie CO2 that is taken in but never , ever released again . Anything else is just putting off the problem .
The whole point of an explosive is to cause a chemical reaction very quickly . Relying on atmospheric oxygen as part of this reaction is going to slow down the reaction significantly , thus reducing the explosiveness of the reaction . Many explosives put the reactants very close to each other so they can easily find new partners and push the reaction forward . Oxygen is n't even strictly required for an explosive as there are several elements which will react and release a lot of energy , such as nitrogen , but it is awfully convenient . It 's just not common enough to know that you are interacting with a specific explosive which would be vulnerable to this tactic and is stable and small enough to put into this sort of environment .
Although we do n't really know , it 's probably genuinely just electricity . Consciousness can be linked to neuronal activity . If you lose consciousness , parts of your brain stop firing . Regain it , and they start up again . This is a pretty good indication that neuronal activity probably causes consciousness . It 's just a very complicated system . Complicated systems can do incredible things .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone's behalf, that someone has to submit form 3520. Note that since you're not a professional, this form must be paper-filed (CRTP, EA, CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line). Once the form is accepted by the FTB, you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend. Pay attention: you're going to represent the partnership, not the individual.
They do n't mostly . Depends how rural they are , in the US they mostly do run electricity out to those rural houses . Not always though , many people who actually live that far our just use generators . As for sewers and water , they have wells and a septic system . My old house had those and my Mom 's does too , it 's not particularly rare and you do n't even need to be all that rural to need them . Lots of towns have no sewers , or do n't provide it for most people .
Erosion covers ruins in a lot of dirt in a few hundred years . In most areas wind carries a lot of dust and sand that can collect over time . Most cities are build in valleys near rivers , places with a lot of erosion and occasional floods add a lot of dirt . Vegetation quickly holds that dirt . Large old cities often had to be abandoned and forgotten due to famines , diseases or local conflicts . Many cities are build on top of older cities .
1 . Politics . Signing DOMA was a good way to placate social moderates and defuse some of the social tension present in the electorate . It did n't cost him very much in the gay community , because they were mostly concerned with issues of blanket discrimination ( ie gay people getting murder for being gay ) not some technicality of law . He calculated that he could gain more by screwing the gay community than he would lose by standing up for gay rights . 2 . DOMA actually made it more likely that some states , eg New York , Mass et al cold legalize gay marriage without getting into a war over gay marriage with Texas , Kentucky , Iran , et al .
They are two completely different languages , with different grammar , vocabulary , sentence structure , the lot . However , Chinese characters each denote an entire word as a whole concept and not letters or syllables , so speaking any Chinese dialect is not necessary to be able to read and understand Chinese writing . Two people can read the same text and understand each in radically different languages - including non - Chinese ones . Thus , when China 's government wishes to announce something to all Chinese , they simply announce it in writing and every one who can read it can understand it .
Bass is low pitched stuff , tubas , bass players , lower male singers , etc . Treble is higher , usually a normal woman 's talking pitch and up . Flutes , higher guitar stuff , soprano singers , etc . As for equalizers , first I should say that music is already equalized before you get it , so the equalizer is mostly for people who like their music differently from how it is mixed , or to account for differences in speakers and room set up . Once you account for differences between your listening set up and the set up it was mastered on , it all comes down to taste , so " right " is just how you want it to sound . Equalizers break down your music into more pitch categories than just " bass " or " treble " . Your equalizer probably has 8 - 12 sliders or so , each of them with a range above or below it ( a number like 400 - 800hz ) , and on one side of all the sliders should be markers showing how much change the sliders make in volume . Zero should be in the middle , numbers above will be positive , numbers below will be negative . If all the sliders are set to zero , the sound will come through exactly as it was mastered ( albeit your speakers and set up will change how it sounds ,
Anymore , it is just another word for state , and bears no legal significance . Massachusetts , Virginia , Pennsylvania , and Kentucky refer to themselves as commonwealths ... Delaware has in the past , and Vermont uses both state and commonwealth . All of these recognized themselves as states ... for example , if you are speeding in Boston , you will be pulled over by the Massachusetts State Police .
Vessels can carry weapons if the company allows it , most do n't due to insurance issues . I worked on a ship that did most of its work off of east and west Africa and we carried firearms . We had all the necessary paperwork(Arms Declaration , etc ) to go along with the weapons so it was never an issue when entering foreign ports . If we were going to be working in an area with a high risk for piracy the company would send a security team to meet us prior the entering the area , they would travel with us for how ever long deemed necessary . The issue is often when an armed security team travels to a different country . For example ( if I 'm remembering correct ) the Suez Canal does n't allow armed security team to transit so now you have to deal with weapons and personnel getting off the vessel . Now you got a problem of ' importing ' weapons , even though you 're just going through . We never had these issues as the weapons were ours and not the security teams . When in Africa we never had any direct contact with pirates but we did have a couple situations . Coming into Douala , Cameroon approaching the anchorage a skiff approached us with about 6 people on it . We had no security team onboard , the captain went below and came up with a
Any insurance program works by collecting a huge group of people and having them pay into a collective fund . When a low - likelihood but expensive event occurs [ like a car accident ] , money from that pool is used to pay out to the claim . Health insurance works the same way , but because health insurance in the US is profit driven and pricey , it is often ignored by people in fairly good health . This leaves the pool that does buy in skewed to those ill , injured , or otherwise at increased risk . This makes it more difficult to cut up the pie to pay off claims AND still turn a profit . Cost aside , the health insurance industry has made a name for itself with some rather egregious practices : one particularly notable example was cutting off people when their care got too expensive , or dropping the plan [ or not even offering a plan ] if their risk factor was considered too high . As part of the deal to try and control costs to the industry , one of the deals cut was that more healthy people would be required to buy in to the larger pool . To that end , the fine for not carrying insurance was part of the compromise for anyone opting not to carry a plan . There was an effort to produce what is called a " public option " ,
The word is most often used in programs which make random numbers . Programs run on algorithms which run the same way every time and thus are not random . Usually , programs will use something like the computer 's internal clock to act as an initial seed value then do various mathematical operations on it to generate a chain of numbers . From a human perspective , the numbers usually look random . And for simulations , they are often random enough to be usable . But since the process which generated them can be recreated to produce the exact same string of numbers , the term pseudorandom is used to describe them .
In intense situations like a car crash our brains go into overdrive and remember little details to a much greater degree than normal . Our brains have evolved to do this so we can recall every single detail which might help us avoid similar situations in the future - our normal memories are not nearly as detailed . This means when you look back on the situation you have more ' memory ' to retrieve and this creates an illusion that time went slower . Research has shown that during the event our perception of time is not actually slowed - it 's just when looking back on events they appear to happen in slow motion .
Hi,Thanks for asking.It seems from the history that you are having impetigo on the scalp.Based on your query, my opinion is as follows.1. Impetigo is bacterial infection of the skin and it can affect the skin of the scalp.2. It is caused by the infection of the bacteria and one of the common bacteria associated with this is Staphylococci.3. This requires treatment by the use of antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs.Hence you need to consult your doctor for evaluation and treatment.Hope it helps.Any further queries, happy to help again.
Yes it is possible . On average , a license plate is 6 - 8 numerical / letter combination . Short term memory can easily remember that short of a combination . Additionally , at a traffic stop you normally tell dispatch the license plate of the car you are stopping before you even come to a stop and initiate a conversation with the person you just stopped . So if that vehicle flees , all you have to say is the vehicle is fleeing I 'm in pursuit . However if for some reason you do n't get the plate and the vehicle flees you 'll be surprised how much the brain remembers when your adrenaline is pumping .
As someone who had chemotherapy when I was five , let me explain it to you like I remember . My body was really sick ( no one said the word ' cancer ' around me then ) . I was told I had to have this medicine that would make me sicker , but it would eventually make me better . Chemo is basically poison to your system , but it kills off the bad cancer cells along with some of the good . That is why a person who is undergoing chemo has a weakened immune system . The chemo kills off the bad cancer cells and eventually your body , as amazing as it is , is able to have a healthy immune system free of active cancer cells . When the doctors finally gave me a clean bill of health , they asked me if I had any questions . I asked them if I would ever get cancer again . They told me my chance was 50/50 , just like any other normal person out there who never had cancer before . 27 years later and I 'm still cancer free . The only long term damage that I have found is that my permanent teeth were developing at the time I had my treatment , and the chemo made them very fragile . Hope that helps !
No, there is no linkage to the value of real estate and inflation. In most of the United States if you bought at the peak of the market in 2006, you still haven't recovered 7+ years later. Also real estate has a strong local component to the price. Pick the wrong location or the wrong type of real estate and the value of your real estate will be dropping while everybody else sees their values rising. Three properties I have owned near Washington DC, have had three different price patterns since the late 80's. Each had a different starting and ending point for the peak price rise. You can get lucky and make a lot, but there is no way to guarantee that prices will rise at all during the period you will own it.
Every country in the world has their own unique style of humor , often influenced by the culture of the people who live there , and their collective history . British humor is best described in this Wikipedia , but it probably wo n't make sense unless you see the tv shows , movies , etc . URL_0 I suggest you watch shows such as Mr Bean , Are you being served ? Mind Your Language and Keeping Up Appearances as an initial sample of British humor .
When you 're reading you 're doing two things . The first thing you do is recognizing word images and stringing them up into sentences . Recognizing word images is ' mechanical ' in the sense that any skill you 've learned to do is mechanical , like driving a car or riding a bike or playing tennis or playing tetris or eating with a knife and fork and so on . You 're just going through the motions , basically , and because you 've practiced those skills so much simply by doing them often you can exercise them even without being aware of them . This is why you can drive home from work and think about that way too short skirt Stacy was wearing and what a horrible skank she is at the same time . The second thing you do when you 're reading is interpreting or imagining what happens in the story . This requires your attention , and is not something you can do on auto - pilot . When your attention drifts from what you were imagining , what you were imagining goes away , and you start imagining whatever it is your attention drifted to . When you 're reading and you suddenly find you 've not retained anything for the last couple of lines / paragraphs / pages , you 've been executing the mechanical skill of reading but not the interpretative or imaginative skill of reading . Usually this does
No " name change " happened . Many names that are in use today have been around for hundreds or even thousands of years . James can be traced back to Latin through French . Isaac has its roots in Judaism . Napoleon is a French name that came from Corsica . Bob is a relatively old shortened version of Robert . Your assumption seems to be that James and Bob are plain , recently invented names while Isaac and Napoleon are fancy , older names , but this is simply not correct .
What makes a lawyer expensive is their ability to persuade the judge and jury ( if any ) of your innocence ( or your guiltiness if they are a state/'crown ' prosecutor ) . Lawyers who have a good track record of being able to take on big / risky cases and ' win ' will naturally be able to charge more than lawyers who have more limited experience and/or a poorer track record . Note that some lawyers may take on big risky cases for a low fee or even free just to get their name out there . This is so that if they ' win ' they can then then charge more to future clients because they will be well known as the successful lawyer who managed to convince the jury to find the defendant not - guilty in the case that went against all odds ( e.g. where the public consensus was that the person was guilty ) .
Indexing is - as the thread is discussing - part of it . Your local index is not really inferior , despite the comments being mentioned here . Further , any difference in algorithm would be countered by the advantage of being local .... if ... algorithms and indexes were all that mattered . But ... what 's missing in the explanations so far is specialization . Your local index of your hard drive is pretty darn good and if your computer had to do exactly one thing when you asked to search that index it would do it very , very , very quickly . But ... your computer is doing LOTS of things at that second you search your local index . It 's running the OS , it 's keeping your applications running , it 's working with the graphics card , it 's marshaling around all the various things that make a personal computer able to do all that it does . Google - on the other hand - has a ginormous farm of servers that does basically one thing - it searches the index . So ... _specialization _ results in the advantage to google .
Lets say today we are going to vote on issue A. Well everyone has one last chance to speak their mind about the issue . So Jon takes the stage and talks ... and talks ... and talks ... and talks ... Until it is to late to actually vote , and we all go home and try again tomorrow . Yes that is what happens in the Senate each time you hear about a filibuster .
Yeah , the whole yakuza angle is much of it in recent times , but tattoos in Japan ( I.e. Their own particular style of tattooing , irezumi ) have throughout history been associated with criminality and the underclasses . Originally , tattoos of lines , circles , or dogs ( among other things ) , were branded onto criminals to identify them . Even after this practice died out and tattoos garnered a more romantic image ( lovers would get each other 's names and the kanji for ' life ' on them ) , in the late Tokugawa and well into the Meiji era ( 1800s - early 1900s ) , irezumi was seen as a degenerate practice that did not sit well with the cultural and political " civilising " reforms of the period , and was prohibited , forcing it underground . Irezumi is thus something often conducted out of the artist 's home , and has a kind of inner circle prestige and often a taboo associated with it , hence the bans in some onsen and such . However , it seems that in recent times " Western " style parlours have sprung up and have much less stigma attached to them . Source : I did an essay on this last year in my Japanese class .
I guess because farts smell , and they make a silly noise which makes the person doing them seem undignified . It 's more a case of the person doing it would be embarrassed than others would take offence . That implies someone who farts in public is someone who does n't care what other people think of them . Whether this is " right " or not is another matter , but that 's the idea behind why people feel that way . I 'd say burping goes in the same category as farting actually - it 's not polite to do it in public . Sneezing is different because sneezes are pretty much impossible to stop .
Quick and easy explanation : humans naturally sing a little bit out of tune . Autotune takes a recording of someone 's voice and alters the pitch either up or down to make it perfectly in tune . Longer explanation : Imagine a violin . You can put your fingers anywhere along the neck and pluck , and it will play a note . Slide it up or down the neck and the note will be different . One of the reasons violins take great skill to play is that you have to know * exactly * where to put your fingers in order to play the note in tune . If your fingers are a little too high or a little too low on the neck , then the note will be out of tune . Now imagine a guitar . A guitar has frets on its neck . Frets are small strips of metal that protrude from the neck , and there are usually around 22 of them . These frets are placed at exactly the right intervals in order for perfectly tuned notes to sound . You basically ca n't play an out of tune note on a guitar ( unless you bend or use a slide ) , and that is because these frets — and not your fingers — are what actually determine the " length " of the string and thus the pitch that sounds . Basically , autotune is a program that puts
Mint.com does a pretty good job at this, for a free service, but it's mostly for personal finance. It looks at all of your transactions and tries to categorize them, and also allows you to create your own categories and filters. For example, when I started using it, it imported the last three months of my transactions and detected all of my 'coffee house' transactions. This is how I learned that I was spending about $90 a month going to Starbucks, rather than the $30 I had estimated. I know it's not a 'system' like an accounting outfit might use, but most accounting offices I've worked with have had their own home-brewed system.
" People have rights and corporations are just groups of people . " That said , corporations are n't REALLY considered to be people and there 's plenty of rights that they do n't have . But , when talking about free speech the argument is that each person in the corporation has the right to free speech so there 's no reason why they 'd lose that right just because they 're in a group .
It 's not so much an evolutionary reason , as just an artifact of how we process our surroundings . You see , most of the things that you consider negative about your day to day life are actually fairly minor , but they add up throughout your day . Tiny struggles and annoyances that make you feel like your life is drudgery , worthless , and more of a pain than it 's worth . Nothing major , but almost constant annoyance . Death by a thousand paper cuts , to steal a phrase . GOOD THINGS , however , tend to come in more discrete moments . They are usually bigger , more memorable , and more notable . You can remember when various good things happened in your life . They are the things that you hope and pray for every day . That promotion at work . Getting married . Having children . Getting a new car . Your team winning the championship , etc ... So , you can see how negative things are generally smaller in amplitude , but higher in frequency , whereas positive things are generally bigger in amplitude , but slower in frequency . This leads to the curious situation where , as time passes , you forget the negative things more quickly than you forget the positive things . The negative things were n't notable individually , and so you ca n't really recall them on an individual basis .
There are two big hurdles : making sure that the brain is still viable after transplant and that doctors can actually re - attach the brain . What modern medicine does know is that approximately 15 - 20 seconds after your heart stops , you lose consciousness . In 10 minutes ( 20 minutes if certain drugs are used ) , your neurons are * damaged * , not dead , from oxygen deprivation . Doctors do not know exactly how long it takes for neurons to die from lack of oxygen , only that extended time without oxygen will cause brain damage and the accompanying physiological results . What * will * kill your brain cells , however , is [ reperfusion injury ] ( URL_0 ) . After cells are deprived of oxygen , the sudden reintroduction of oxygen causes oxidation reactions and release of free radicals ( see the link for a paper on it . ) Now , assuming that the brain is fully intact and functional after being transplanted ( avoiding reperfusion injury and the like ) , the issue is connecting it to the spinal cord . Again , I 'm assuming that there is no damage due to trauma , infection , oxygen deprivation , etc . Currently , there are no successful means of re - establishing the connection to the spinal cord . Even with oxygen reaching the brain and life support for the rest of your new body 's systems
Basically you have a conscious and sub - conscious mind . The first is where your thinking takes place , the latter is all behind the scenes . When you sleep , your conscious mind basically shuts down . Your subconscious mind , without any input from your thinking / perceiving mind , takes over and the result is a dream . As you wake up , your conscious mind boots back up and takes the helm , but since it was n't really a part of your dream there 's nothing for it to remember . Therefore , you ca n't think about your dreams because thinking is conscious and dreaming is sub - conscious . In the occasions that you DO remember your dreams , it 's because your conscious mind somehow took notice of what your sub - conscious was doing ( dreaming ) so you 're able to think about / remember your dreams due to this overlap . This is more likely to happen when you wake up during a dream , as your conscious mind is turning back on while your subconscious is still dreaming .
The concept of accumulating wealth would n't have come around until there was a resource worth accumulating and there was enough of a surplus of it to accumulate . You would also need the concept of possession / ownership . I doubt a hunter - gatherer society would have that pre - requisite concept ( ie . everything would be shared or discarded if unnecessary ) . If we are talking about things like number of children or relative decision - making power within the community as criteria of wealth , than maybe that context works for prehistoric societies . In the most basic context , wealth may have equalled power . The more power you have , the more likely you are to get the best things as they were gathered / hunted / made . There would have been little to nothing to accumulate though , so wealth was as temporary as your power . Modern wealth would have sprung up around the time when people settled down and formed civilizations . If you stay in one place , build a permanent home , and have the means to provide food and water to your family , than you have the opportunity to accumulate things beyond those necessities .
Electro - chemical nerve impulses are disrupted by the transmission of voltages across the body . It causes nerves to operate " out of sync " when the taser is operating . Usually in a taser , the voltage is very high , but the current is low , and the disruption is temporary . However , it can induce heart attacks or cause other injuries .
Greek (Modern Greek: Ελληνικά, romanized: Elliniká, pronounced [eliniˈka]; Ancient Greek: Ἑλληνική, romanized: Hellēnikḗ) is an independent branch of the Indo-European family of languages, native to Greece, Cyprus, southern Italy (Calabria and Salento), southern Albania, and other regions of the Balkans, the Black Sea coast, Asia Minor, and the Eastern Mediterranean. It has the longest documented history of any Indo-European language, spanning at least 3,400 years of written records. Its writing system is the Greek alphabet, which has been used for approximately 2,800 years; previously, Greek was recorded in writing systems such as Linear B and the Cypriot syllabary. The alphabet arose from the Phoenician script and was in turn the basis of the Latin, Cyrillic, Armenian, Coptic, Gothic, and many other writing systems. The Greek language holds a very important place in the history of the Western world. Beginning with the epics of Homer, ancient Greek literature includes many works of lasting importance in the European canon. Greek is also the language in which many of the foundational texts in science and philosophy were originally composed. The New Testament of the Christian Bible was also originally written in Greek. Together with the Latin texts and traditions of the Roman world, the Greek texts and Greek societies of antiquity constitute the objects of study of the discipline of Classics. During antiquity, Greek was by far the most widely spoken lingua franca in the Mediterranean world. It eventually became the official language of the Byzantine Empire and developed into Medieval Greek. In
There is n't just one way to do it , but ultimately , they are all equivalent . An image channel can be represented by a function from R^2 - > R Or equivalently , an 2 - d image can be represented by a function from R^2 - > R^k , where k is the number of channels . This associates a value for each channel , for each point on the image surface . Video is a simple extension of the concept , a function from R^3 - > R for each channel . With time as the additional dimension . A simple code example : URL_0 The image_generator function here is the thing to look at . Give at an ( x , y , t ) and it produces an ( r , g , b ) .
The LHC is actually just a oval tube full of magnets that fires protons around . By switching the magnets on and off very quickly the protons move round the tube . Once the protons have reached 99.99999 % the speed of light they are moved into the way of each other and * BANG * they collide . Different detectors ( basically really special expensive cameras ) look at the images produced by the collision . Then very smart people with very big heads look at the images . The whole point of LHC is to progress scientific knowledge . The Higgs Boson got so much coverage because the LHC is the only machine in the world capable of actually detecting it . But there are many different experiments going on every day at the LHC all doing very different things .
What I'm reading is that they subtracted the $85 you owe them and they're cutting you a cashier's check for the rest. Ethically speaking, you owed them the money, they subtracted it and made you a check for the rest. Once you cash that check, nobody owes anyone anything in this equation. Sounds like they're in the clear. Legally speaking, I have no idea, since I'm not a lawyer, but even if it was not legal, good luck getting the $85 back without spending far more in retaining a lawyer and fighting it in court. Even fighting it in small claims court will take more of your time than $85 is worth. If it's your time that is the problem, 12 days is not horrible in banking terms. Yes, we're spoiled now by ACH transfers and same day deposit availability, but since you're retired, I'm sure if you think back you'll remember when it used to take two business weeks to clear a check... TLDR; cancel future deposits to that bank, find a new bank, then forget this fiasco and get your revenge by enjoying your life.
Well ... conspiracy theories point to several things , but all of them can be explained . 1 . There are no stars in pictures , because they are too hard to recreate ( or something ) - there are no stars , because it 's bright and cameras are not sensitive enough / had not enough exposure to catch them . You can point your phone at a clear sky one night and there is high chance that default settings wo n't catch any stars . 2 . Flag flutters , while it should n't , so there is wind , so it was filmed on Earth - Flag moves when people touch it . It moves for quite a while actually , just as if there was no air to slow it down . 3 . Shadows are weird , so there were multiple sources of light , just like in movie studio - Mythbusters recreated it . When terrain is uneven , the shadows change their positions . All they need is a small hill , or a depression . 4 . Suits in a vacuum get bloated , to a point where your fingers are useless . They would n't be able to operate a small mechanism of a camera - they had modified cameras with extra big button . 5 . One rock has a letter C on it , which is a mark from a prop department , so it can be placed in
The true answer : Marketing and margins . It 's a " premium " product . You are n't paying for the value , you are paying for the perceived performance . A premium product can demand higher margins are lower demand . Why are they able to do this ? A ) Marketing : Look at beat 's head phones or almost any product " built " / marketed by a celebrity . You are paying for the name . They are usually better than getting a walmart special , but the quality is n't premium . It 's not about value . Think of Bose , they have a reputation for great sound , and arguably so . Is that sound 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ... times better than a lower tier product , probably not . That 's not the value , the value is in the name . B ) The margins . Higher quality sound requires better parts . The design is going to be more complex . The precision has to be higher . This is what creates the better sound . At the end of the day , it 's not THAT much more expensive . Cycle times for molding at about the same . The amount of plastic is similar . The cost of manufacturing the product is not that much higher ; however , most markets have sweet spots when it comes to price point . You can
The same way your basic television ( non cable ) or radio is free . The advertisers give the site / station money to run their ads . They hope you see them and buy their stuff . The more people click on ( like us on FB ! ) or watch a station , the more the station can charge for ads . We know people watch the Superbowl or listen to the good rock station on your radio . Ads for those cost more . Ads for less popular shows / stations / websites cost less . " Hot Naked Girls " will get a lot of hits and people will see the banner ads at the top of the site . " Naked Old Men " is not going to be able to ask for much money from a company to put a banner on it 's site . That 's why less popular cable shows have to have a lot of ads too .
' Color ' is a categorization of the electromagnetic spectrum that our eyes are capable of transforming into neural signals . Objects do not inherently represent our categorization of them . If your question is if when an object receives electromagnetic radiation , does it absorb , reflect , and transmit specific frequency ranges of that radiation , then yes .
Not confident enough to provide you with an explanation of postmodernism in terms of literature or paintings , but I can try to explain what it means in architecture . To understand postmodernism , you must somewhat understand modernism , as postmodernism is a response to modernism . In architecture , modernism is when all the buildings are efficiently designed and designed to provide function . Imagine a simple , square building that optimizes available space and resources . Now postmodernism is a response / reaction to this , saying modernism is boring more or less . Imagine a building in the shape of a sphere . It might not be 100 % practical , but it incorporates creativity and is awesome to look at .
Weigh stations serve a few purposes . 1 ) to check that commercial trucks running over a states highways are not overweight on any of their axles . If they are overweight , they need special permits . 2 ) to inspect commercial vehicles . For example , if a commercial truck has brake problems , it could ruin a lot of people 's day . So , trucks are semi - randomly inspected for road worthiness . 3 ) to make sure the driver is within federal hours of service compliance . Commercial driver 's have a strict set of rules governing how long they can drive , when to take a break , etc . --------------- Why are they usually closed ? Well , in Virginia , they almost never close . West Virginia , on the other hand , rarely has open scales . It comes down to funding .
It 's an amazing phenomenon , which other people have already stated , such as one person brakes sharply , so a ripple effect happens , and a person in a car 100 cars away suddenly finds himself slowing down for no apparent reason . Another reason is dude to bottle - necking , where for example the may be a toll booth , and 4 lanes try to squeeze into one or two lanes , meaning you let one person move across , then you go , then another person moves across etc .
It 's less about why is neutral where it is and more about why first is where it is . The idea is to make first gear as easy as possible to find since first gear is very useful . If you 're rolling up to the lights , you have the clutch in and the lights turn green this arrangement ensures you can be 100 % sure when you release the clutch that you get 1st gear and not neutral so you can fang it and impress the ladies instead of falling over . Since we 've committed to putting 1st where numerically neutral belongs , where does neutral now go ? We want it close to first so up the top is dumb and why go 2nd N 3rd when you can go 1st N 2nd ? So when motorcycle gearing was standerdised , this is was the result .
Depends on the state, in Texas you should charge sales tax because the shipment is going to a freight forwarder in Texas. That being said, once you have the bill of lading you can have your tax credited by the vendor. It is one of the documents the state will except in lieu of sales tax for exports. There are five. You can find this info at the Comptrollers website. I would validate that you are being charged sales/use tax and not withholding tax, withholding would be related to your country. Doc requirements for export vary from state to state.
HelloFoot pain may be due to many reasons like gout,arthritis, calcaneal spur etc.You may need clinical correlation and X-ray of both calcaneum in lateral view.X-ray of both feet (AP view)should also be taken.You may need clinical correlation and investigations.You may need routine hemogram,random blood sugar,serum uric acid,RA factor,HsCRP etc.Treatment depend upon underlying cause.Calcaneal spur treated by analgesics,soft sleeper,alternate cold and hot water treatment.If arthritis is confirmed the you may need specific medicines for arthritis.If gouty arthritis is confirmed then you may need uricosuric medicines.Take Care,Dr.Indu Bhushan
Stephen Fry is of the opinion that the particular cadence and rhythm of auctioneers in the American South is strongly reminiscent of the banjo picking of Kentucky bluegrass . I agree , wholeheartedly , and I ca n't believe I 'd never made the connection myself . Edit : Here 's a clip from his excellent show , Stephen Fry in America , where he discusses it . URL_0
The leading theories state that homosexuality is likely caused by epigenetic factors ... much like handedness . What that means is that during development in utero , the growing embryo / fetus is exposed to a lot of different hormones . These hormones interact with the genes of the embryo and cause them to take on different characteristics . So homosexuality is an effect of early uterine conditions ... just like being left - handed is . A person chooses to be gay or straight just as much as they choose to be right or left handed . Edit : Sources URL_1 URL_0 URL_2
The United States probably wo n't ever completely be debt free . We 've had debt [ since 1791 ] ( URL_6 ) ( edit : except for one year under Andrew Jackson ) . We were once on track to become debt free ! But that was [ under Clinton ] ( URL_8 ) and changed once George W. Bush took office . [ This ] ( URL_4 ) and [ this ] ( URL_1 ) list only 3 - 4 countries which do n't have debt . A government having a debt is * much more complex * than a household or a person having a debt . It 's not as simple as " debt = bad " or " when a person is in debt they 're trying to pay it off , so when a country is in debt they 're trying to pay it off " . It 's also not as simple as " debt is good in all circumstances " . > When will that come back and bite them in the ass When and if . And the answer is : no one knows either answer with certainty . If you want an example of what you 're describing , look up the crisis in Greece . [ Here ] ( URL_2 ) is the wikipedia page , using a search engine ( and possibly the search button here ) will be beneficial . What basically happened is : 1 .
generally they do nt . Many pain killers are actually just anti - inflammatory drugs as any part in you body that is in pain will also be inflammed , so reducing this will also reduce pain . EDIT : so in ELI5 mode : drugs go all over your body ( bloodstream ) but only affect places in pain .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, that the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements, which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management, thus increase user confidence in the financial statement, reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting.
If every file was compressed then every file would have to be decompressed every time it is used ( and re - compressed every time it is saved ) . Zipping and unzipping files uses a decent amount of processing power , and today 's computers can store a lot of data where it makes more sense to just store the uncompressed version of the file since space is quite abundant and easily added to computers . Program files especially are often being accessed and modified frequently , it 'd be too much CPU workload if files were always being zipped and unzipped . If we 're just talking about things like a Microsoft Word file and stuff , then if you really want to save space on your computer you can zip all of those . But I do n't see this being a realistic scenario . This is similar to WAV music files . They are much larger than MP3 and other formats ( and can be way better quality ) but they use less processing power to play . This is why some video games like Titanfall use all uncompressed music files , because they did n't want the processor working to decompress them during the game . This contributed to Titanfall 's large size on the hard drive .
Market share , not in the way other people are saying . Macs have a lower market share , but not enough for them to be ignored outright . The real issue is the market share of Macs amongst gamers , which is incredibly small because gamers like being able to swap out hardware and build computers and Macs are n't designed to be built like that .
Because if they get you hooked in they can get your money via their other services ( URL_0 , YouTube , Gmail , etc ) Why do you think google is doing this at all ? To get more people plugged into their online network . Google will most likely sell their fiber service to as close to nothing as they can get away with , hell they might even do it at a loss if their other services cover for it . Their big selling point , the 1 Gb upload and download will cost $ 70 a month .
TLDR : By itself , it 's not . Imagine I could flip a switch , and everyone in the world would be gainfully employed enough wages to live comfortable . In the process of flipping that switch , the top 1 % of earners would see their wealth triple . Most people would agree , flip the switch . Most people do n't care about income inequality unless the entire economy is in a bad shape . At that point , there needs to be a reasonable discussion about how much different classes need to contribute in order to turn things around .
It 's in conflict with the way we actually experience the universe , which proves at least one thing : mathematical proofs are n't everything . There have been various ways proposed to resolve the paradox , including : * space and time are n't inifinitely divisible , but come in tiny " chunks " -- a good candidate for this might be the Planck unit , which is the smallest possible distance in space or time that is possible to measure ; * do n't forget that as the distance between Achilles and the tortoise decreases , so does the time Achilles needs to cover that distance , and at the point where Achilles covers an infinitesimal distance in an infinitesimal amount of time is where Achilles catches up with the tortoise ; * the problem assumes that the sum of any infinite series is infinity , but this is not the case ; here , the sum of the infinite series of ever - decreasing distances between Achilles and the tortoise is not infinity , but the distance Achilles travels to catch up with the tortoise which is finite .
Because there are tons and tons of stars in the center of the galaxy , too . Hundreds of millions of them . And supermassive black holes are still very small relative to that number of stars . For example , Sagittarius A\ * , which is the name of the black hole in the center of the galaxy , has a radius of 17 light - hours , which is 120 AU ( i.e. 120 times the distance from the earth to the sun ) . That 's just a bit further than the current distance to the Voyager 1 probe . So Sagittarius A\ * is essentially the size of a solar system , surrounded by hundreds of millions of * actual solar systems * , complete with stars .
Space is n't owned by anyone , and once you 're there you 'd be free to do or go whatever or wherever you wanted . However , depending on where you 're launching from , you have to go through some country 's airspace to get there , and that airspace is likely heavily regulated . This means you 'd have to get clearance from that country 's government in order to launch .
If you're talking about ADBE options, that is an American style option, which can be exercised at any time before expiration. You can exercise your options by calling your broker and instructing them to exercise. Your broker will charge you a nominal fee to do so. As an aside, you probably don't want to exercise the option right now. It still has a lot of time value left, which you'll lose if you exercise. Just sell the option if you don't think ADBE will keep going up.
Generally people copy the small piece of DNA they want to modify from the endogenous DNA / RNA , modify it in the lab , and then put it back . Companies will sell you clones of any [ gene ] ( URL_6 ) you want . Or construct mutant versions of the gene to you specification . For most systems you can add and select for * * plasmids * * which are small circular pieces of DNA that contain the gene or genes to be expressed and a selectable marker . These can be used in bacteria , yeast , human / monkey / mouse / fly cell culture . They usually exist in multiple copies and have to be * * selected * * for . This is commonly done by putting an antibiotic resistance gene on the plasmid and growing cells in the presence of the antibiotic . To more permanently change the genome , you have to * * integrate * * the DNA , have it inserted onto a chromosome . For simpler organisms like yeast this is done by * * [ homologous recombination ] ( URL_4 ) * * . In yeast you can transform the DNA into the yeast , it enters the nucleus , undergoes homologous recombination and you select ( again this can be done by having an antibiotic gene on your piece of DNA ) for the transformed yeast . For human / monkey / mouse / fly
Rubbing alcohol is denatured so that it is unsafe to drink . Methanol is often added and is toxic to the body ( it can cause blindness - hence the phrase " blind drunk . " ) Isopropyl alcohol is converted into acetone in the liver . Adding either methanol ( methyl alcohol ) or isopropyl alcohol makes the rubbing alcohol toxic .
A big part of the reason is because they can . College Board has a near monopoly on standardized testing , so they can set the fees to be as low or as high as they want ( granted , with some reasonable upper constraint . ) Since people are willing to pay those $ 12 to get the results , College Board will charge that -- it does n't often make good business sense to be altruistic .
Even among identical twins , there 's slight variations . There 's also some credence to the idea that sexuality is influenced ( in some small way ) by the environment , especially if you believe in something like the Kinsey Scale , in which most people fall somewhere on the spectrum between 100 % absolutely straight and 100 % absolutely gay . In that case , differences nurture could very easily cause identical twins to express the same sexuality in very different ways , with one identifying as straight and the other as gay .
Meat is subject to a large number of federal regulations having to do with food safety . That something foreign - in this case , horse - could creep into the supply shows a break down in the regulations . Was the horse tested for various conditions like cows are ? If the meat made people ill , could we trace the contaminated meat to its source to prevent other people getting ill ? For a lot of people , the main problem is that they did n't want to eat horse . But the true issue is in the safety of the food .
* * TL;DR Cold War Legacy mostly . * * Also other reasons such as a ) " Global Police Force " , b ) Other countries we like wo n't spend money on their own army now , but neither do we want them to be undefended because they 're our friends , and c ) Military Hardware can be a good business After WWII , the " Allies " were not friends ; they had been allies of necessity . The Soviet Union and the United States had very different ideologies and government types , but a central tenant of each was to spread their ideology around the world . Western Europe had a more similar ideology to the United States than the Soviet Union , and were fearful of Soviet advances after it became known what happened in the Soviet Union ( essentially : you dissent , you go to gulag / die ) . Yet , Western Europe could not support their own armies as their economy were in tatters , so the United States formed NATO and provided the bulk of the material , quite a few soldiers , and nuclear protection . The Soviet Union responded with its own buildup and the Warsaw Pact . So that led to the Cold War Arms Race we all know and love . After the USSR fell , the need for American superiority became less necessary . And it has decreased if you look at the footprint
I 've heard three theories . The first , as MegainPhoto has pointed out , is relativity ; at 5 years old , a year is 20 % of your life , so it seems huge . At 50 years old , a year is 2 % of your life , so it seems like very little . The second is new experiences . This theory suggests that your brain is very active and alert during new experiences , things you 've never seen before , and that it switches off during repetitive , same - old same - old experiences . As a 5 year old , you encounter new ideas , songs , experiences , people all the time , and the world is all strange to you , so your brain is in this hyper - alert mode 24/7 and you have a very strong sense of time passing in a solid , packed - with - detail way . At 50 , you 've seen everything you encounter on a daily basis a thousand times , and done everything you 're doing a thousand times , so your brain just coasts on by , and there are big gaps in your perception of time where your brain was just saying " Yeah yeah , we 've done this already . " The third is that this is just how the brain works . During adolescence , your brain changes very significantly , and maybe these changes
The laws for whether it 's legal to record a conversation without the other party 's knowledge or consent varies from state to state . The federal law is that only one party has to consent to it , but some states go above it . California has a two - party consent law , so it was not legal for the woman to record his conversation . Sterling could sue her , but that would be problematic because he 's denied that it was him on the recording . You ca n't claim you were n't the person talking and then sue someone for recording it . I 'm not sure if an illegally obtained recording ( by a citizen ) is admissible in a criminal or civil trial , but it certainly is legal for the NBA to punish him for the contents of the tape . They are n't bound to any laws about the evidence being admissible or not depending on where it came from .
No magic answers here. Housing is a market, and the conditions in each local market vary. I think impact on cash flow is the best way to evaluate housing prices. In general, I consider a "cheap" home to cost 20% or less of your income, "affordable" between 20-30% and "not affordable" over 30%. When you start comparing rent vs. buy, there are other factors that you need to think about: Renting is an easy transaction. You're comparing prices in a market that is usually pretty stable, and your risk and liability is low. The "cost" of the low risk is that you have virtually no prospects of recouping any value out of the cash that you are laying out for your home. Buying is more complex. You're buying a house, building equity and probably making money due to appreciation. You need to be vigilant about expenses and circumstances that affect the value of your home as an investment. If you live in a high-tax state like New York, an extra $1,200 in property taxes saps over $16,000 of buying (borrowing) power from a future purchaser of your home. If your HOA or condo association is run by a pack of idiots, you're going to end up paying through the nose for their mistakes. Another consideration is your tastes. If you tend to live above your means, you're not going to be able to afford necessary maintenance on the house that you paid too much for.
The power supply is the big issue , as they require DC current , and your wall outlet is AC . The second issue is that the light comes out of them at a very narrow angle , so this means you need a big reflector and a housing to make them act like a normal bulb and emit light in all directions . The third issue is simply due to supply and demand : they are n't popular enough yet , and are still undergoing R & D , so we 've got to eat their high initial cost until they become more widely used . However , if you wanna be clever , get a bunch of LEDs off of ebay and a power supply and make your own setup . It 's more efficient to power a ton of LEDs off of one power supply than to have a handful of LED bulbs that each have their own power supply . Fluorescent lights require a ballast to limit the current going through the tube . The big fluorescent ceiling fixtures have a ballast separate from the bulb , which is why the big bulbs are so cheap individually . Compact fluorescent lights , aka CFLs , have to have a tiny lil ballast in each damn bulb , which is why they 're so expensive , and also why they tend to burn out a lot ( too much heat for the tiny space , and they
The same way your mind sees normally . When you see something in three dimensions , your eyes are seeing it from two slightly different angles . These angles are part of how we perceive depth . So what the VR headset does is show each eye the slightly different angle that you would see if it were real .
The republicans are saying that the IRS does n't have the right to give tax breaks to people who ca n't afford healthcare in states that did n't create healthcare exchanges ( their residents only use federal exchanges ) . One of the core reasons that the ACA can exist is that having more people in the insurance pool makes it financially solvent . The republicans want to get rid of the ACA , so they 're trying to make it so that poor people ca n't afford to be in the exchanges , which will make the ACA have financial problems . The ACA law passed by congress does n't give the IRS explicit rights to give the tax breaks ( but does n't prevent them either , it 's not specific ) .
The easiest way to think of a transistor is like an electronic switch . You can turn off the flow of current by applying a much smaller current to the transistor . So imagine the flow of current in a circuit like cars on the street . The transistor is a stop light . When the light is green , the cars can flow . When the light is red , they stop . Because electricity wants to keep flowing , with multiple transistors you can control the flow of electricity and use it to perform simple ( or not so simple ! ) tasks . Imagine a circuit with two transistors . You could set it up so that if one transistor is on , a light lights up , and if both are on , two lights light up . Now you 've made an extremely simple calculator that can only do 1 + 1 . Modern electronics are built off of the Integrated Circuit , which is actually thousands and thousands of extremely tiny transistors on a silicon chip . So imagine my silly little two transistor circuit . If you had many more transistors , you could make it do all kinds of things .
An alternative to a savings account is a money market account. Not a bank "Money Market" account which pays effectively the same silly rate as a savings account, but an actual Money Market investment account. You can even write checks against some Money Market investment accounts. I have several accounts worth about 13,000 each. Originally, my "emergency fund" was in a CD ladder. I started experimenting with two different Money market investment accounts recently. Here's my latest results: August returns on various accounts worth about $13k: - Discover Bank CD: $13.22 - Discover Bank CD: $13.27 - Discover Bank CD: $13.20 - Discover Savings: $13.18 - Credit Union "Money Market" Savings account: $1.80 - Fidelity Money Market Account (SPAXX): $7.35 - Vanguard Money market Account (VMFXX): $10.86 The actual account values are approximate. The Fidelity Money Market Account holds the least value, and the Credit Union account by far the most. The result of the experiment is that as the CDs mature, I'll be moving out of Discover Bank into the Vanguard Money Market account. You can put your money into more traditional equities mutual fund. The danger with them is the stock market may drop big the day before you want to make your withdrawl... and then you don't have the down payment for your house anymore. But a well chosen mutual fund will yield better. There are 3 ways a mutual fund increase in value: Here's how three of my mutual funds did in the past month... adjusted
[ According to 47 - year elevator maintenance veteran John Menville , the " door close " button is just there to give people the illusion of control . It 's a release valve so that after you have to wait for a million stupid things during the course of the morning , this is n't the straw that breaks the camel 's back and causes you to go postal on the elevator and maybe break something . ] ( URL_0 )
Essentially , it was n't worth the consequence of not giving it back . China was likely prepared to go to war to take HK ... the UK was n't interested in a massive war against China , and China would have easily taken , at a minimum , HK , and done so quickly . In the end the UK had no real choice , and decided to be on China 's good side both militarily and economically rather than explode the region .
It 's a well known theorem in biology ( but not Haldane 's rule ... ca n't remember the name , damnit ! ) that every population will always have the same number of boys and girls at birth . Why ? Well , let 's start by remembering that in a stable population which has proportion p females , each female will have to have 1 / p offspring , on average . ( So if p=0.5 , 2 offspring per female ; p=2/3 , 1.5 offspring per female , etc . ) Now , any particular male can sire dozens of offspring or no offspring , but because every baby has both a mother and a father , if each female has 1 / p offspring on average , the average male will have 1/(1 - p ) offspring . ( So if p=0/5 , 2 offspring per male ; p=2/3 , 3 offspring per male , etc . ) The problem you will immediately see , from an evolutionary perspective , is that having a baby that will have 1.5 offspring ( on average ) is a much worse idea than a baby that will have 3 offspring ( on average ) . So if p > 0.5 , we would expect any mutation that causes an animal to have mostly male children to spread like wildfire through the population . If p < 0.5 , conversely , we expect any mutation that causes an animal to
I did n't know but I looked it up and this is what I found : > > > Monotremata is the most ancient living order of mammals . In addition to being egg layers ( oviparous ) , members of this order share primitive skeletal features such as the shoulder girdle and skull characteristics that have been lost in other living mammals . Relationships to other mammalian groups have been difficult to determine because of the puzzling combination of primitive features and specialized characteristics , a phenomenon known as mosaic evolution . Certain features of the skull appear to link monotremes to the extinct early mammal groups . Other evidence , particularly genetic data , places Monotremata close to more - advanced mammals , namely marsupials . Bonus fun fact : > > > The name Monotremata means “ one - holed , ” in reference to the fact that both sexes have only one opening at the rear of the body , which is used for both reproduction and excretion .
He can say anything he wishes , the ball is n't typically snapped with the word hike , ( at lower levels it usually varies around some fixed command , ie 1st hut , 3rd hut ) , but at the NFL level it 's typically much more complicated , with activation words , for example , snap the ball on the 2nd hut after the 3rd Omaha , so the offense would ignore any number of correct sequences before the 3rd Omaha .
People tend to learn in many different ways . One of these ways is called [ Kinesthetic Learning ] ( URL_0 ) . This is when a person learns best by doing the task they are trying to learn . Often , when a kinesthetic learner is taking in information and can not exercise their preference to actually do what they 're learning , they will fidget to satisfy their kinesthetic desires and make the learning easier .
for a long time no one cared about things like sqrt(-1 ) . It never came up , there was no reason to think about it . Knowing about it solved no problems ... until some clever Italian figured out a formula like the quadratic equation but not for x^2 equations , but for x^3 equations . The funny thing was , when you used his formula to find out that x = -2 is a solution to x^3 + 8 = 0 , you needed some ugly square roots of negative numbers to cancel out . This was a little disturbing , since no one had ever figured out what square roots of negative numbers should do or how they should behave . Fast forward many years , and imaginary numbers are all around , they can be used to describe things that rotate , have an angle , or have a phase ... like waves . Suppose you have a bunch of rulers with ends marked 0 and LENGTH . If you place a bunch of them end to end with a 0 next to a LENGTH you can think of that as adding . Maybe you have 3 of them all the same , you can put them all down and call that 3 . Now suppose you can only measure in one direction ... call these the positive numbers . How can you measure in the reverse direction ? Well , you rotate the rulers 180^o
Because here 's the law in a nutshell : " Hey states : make up a math and reading test and set some arbitrary minimum requirement . If too many kids do n't hit that minimum , ~~we take your money away~~ your students are incentivized to leave their school . If they keep doing poorly , we restructure you . Oh , what do you get if the kids do especially well ? Nothing . " So let me ask you which is easier : spend extra money and work extra hard to make sure every student gets a quality education ? Or lower the minimum and re - classify the drop - outs and failures with one swift stroke of the pen so that you keep ~~getting your funding~~ your students and your pride ? Not only that , but it punishes states that have disproportionately high numbers of kids who do n't want to learn or do n't have good resources at home . It also provides absolutely no incentive for going above and beyond the bare minimum . Congrats , you passed your state math and reading exam . Oh , you want to take college - level classes and play a musical instrument ? Tough shit , we do n't care about you because we need to pour more money into futilely trying to convince delinquents to pass this stupid test , too .
Following up on @petebelford's answer: If you can find a less expensive loan, you can refinance the car and reduce the total interest you pay that way. Or, if your loan permits it (not all do; talk to the bank which holds the loan and,/or read the paperwork you didn't look at), you may be able to make additional payments to reduce the principal of the loan, which will reduce the amount and duration of the loan and could significantly reduce the total interest paid ... at the cost of requiring you pay more each month, or pay an additional sum up front. Returning the car is not an option. A new car loses a large portion of its value the moment you drive it off the dealer's lot and it ceases to be a "new" car. You can't return it. You can sell it as a recent model used car, but you will lose money on the deal so even if you use that to pay down the loan you will still owe the bank money. Given the pain involved that way, you might as well keep the car and just try to refinance or pay it off. Next time, read and understand all the paperwork before signing. (If you had decided this was a mistake within 3 days of buying, you might have been able to take advantage of "cooling down period" laws to cancel the contract, if such laws exist in your area. A month later is
From tax perspective, any income you earn for services performed while you're in the US is US-sourced. The location of the person paying you is of no consequence. From immigration law perspective, you cannot work for anyone other than your employer as listed on your I-20. So freelancing would be in violation of your visa, again - location of the customer is of no consequence.
Many animals enjoy physical contact from others that they trust . For example , some cats will come up and rub their face into yours . Dogs may jump on you and start licking you . If an animal lets you rub their belly , it shows that they trust you and that they enjoy your touch . A feral cat or dog probably is n't going to let you get anywhere close to their belly .
Because convergent and divergent do n't mean , * gets closer and closer to a certain number * ( or do n't ) , they mean the * * sum of the terms * * gets closer and closer to some number . /u / oralexam 's answer shows why the sum of 1 / x^i when i goes to infinity does n't ever stabilize .
I do n't believe so . An LED emits a specific color of light that is due to the " band gap " of the semiconductor materials it is made up of . This is basically the energy difference between electrons in the valence band and conduction band . By careful engineering of the semiconducors , it is possible to get various colors of LED . X - rays and gamma rays are significantly higher energy ( shorter frequency ) than visible light . It seems unlikely to me that you could engineer the material to have such a large band gap .
i can tell you i joined the army at 18 and got deployed right after basic . i operated on 4 hours or less the majority of the time we were out in sector . weeks at a time doing recon for our other troops . i preformed fine under pressure and under fire off that amount of sleep . but when i m back in the states i need at least 6 to not be in a crappy mood . i m not sure why but i think its more the what your doing after the sleep than the how much sleep . like say your engaged in something your awake and moving but as soon as you stop you tend to come down and get a little sleepy . so i think it has more to do with the what your doing after . TLDR : depends on how active you are after you get the sleep . more active you can stay awake on less sleep .
URL_0 > It is called " frit " > > From an " auto glass specialist " : > Seeing dots on windshields > > > Q : Several years ago , black dots started appearing on new vehicle windshields . The dots are usually only around the periphery of the windshield . What purpose do these dots serve ? --Brad , Midland , Texas > > > > [ Steve Coyle , Auto Glass Specialists ] The black dots blend the border into the glassA : Windshield glass contains a black enamel band ( called the frit ) around the periphery that is baked into the glass . This black band includes a border of dots . See figure . The band has an etched surface to enable adhesive to bond to the glass , says a sales manager at Able Auto Glass . When car manufacturers install the windshield , they bond the windshield to the vehicle with adhesive placed on the etched part of the black enamel glass area ( inside surface ) . The outside of the enamel band shades the adhesive from the Sun and protects it from ultraviolet radiation . The band also serves a cosmetic purpose by covering up the adhesive and gives the windshield edge " a more finished look . " > > > > [ Steve Coyle , Auto Glass Specialists ] The black dots blend the border into the glass > > > > Rather than a straight black
For most part , they mean the same . However : - In " Destiny " , there is the idea of a goal you have to reach , an objective that was set for you ( external ) but you still need to make efforts in order to reach it . You play a part in your destiny : your motivation will intervene in its realization . - Fate is sealed , is completely extrinsic , set by " someone " else . You have no control upon it , you ca n't change it , it is written into stone and will happen whatever you do or do n't do .
It is n't just injured players in street clothes , you have the healthy scratches to . An NCAA Div I team can have as many players as they want ( although only 13 full scholarships ) , but can only have 15 players available for a given game . Those players are allowed to " dress " in a uniform , while the inactive players must wear street clothes . Coaches are not required to decide who to dress until a little before game time , so they want all the players there . Also , even if they know a particular player wo n't dress , they are still part of the team and are there for support .
1 . While science has not determined exactly how much genes , hormones , environment , or choice factor into sexual identity , there are some preliminary studies which suggest that [ it 's at * least * partially genetic in nature ] ( URL_0 ) . 2 . It is socially and politically irrelevant as to whether or not somebody chooses or is born with a certain sexual identity . Everybody , of all sexualities are people and they deserve to be treated as equal people to begin with . 3 . Bring on the downvotes , Reddit .
Hot water makes oils less viscous . Oils is what traps dirt and germs on the surface of your hand . Soap traps oils when you scrub your hands . Its the combination of hot water , soap and mechanical action of scrubbing that removes dirt and germs from your hand . Soap does n't kill bacteria . Nor does hot water . It just removes them from your hand and flushes it down the drain
Think of a ROTH IRA as just wrapping paper . Everybody who has an income has one box of this wrapping paper labeled " ROTH IRA " sitting around . You can put this wrapping paper on pretty much anything you want - Mutual funds , annuities , real estate , etc . What this wrapping paper does is camoflages your wrapped up goods from the tax man who comes to visit each april . He comes in , looks around , and says " looks like you got more stuff . You owe me _ _ _ _ " But he never seems to notice that this ROTH package gets bigger and bigger . In other words , whatever you decide to cover in your ROTH wrapping paper will grow without ever affecting your tax output . However , it does n't help you pay any less taxes on the money you decide to put into it . ( from your paycheck , for example . ) You still have to pay your regular taxes on money * before * it gets put in the ROTH wrapper . SOOO ..... The real question is what are you going to put in your Roth IRA wrapping paper . You * could * put some bonds in there , but you 'll probably never make it to a million dollars . You * could * put some stocks in there , and if you choose well you * might * make
Step One : you traded stocks in a " pit " ( you might see these on old shows about the markets ) . A bunch of people stood around in a circle and shouted buy and sell offers at each other . By listening to which were accepted you could get a sense for what the " market price " was . Step Two : Someone paid attention to these values and periodically reported them out of the pit to the rest of the world . These reports were communicated to people who paid to receive them . In the beginning they were transmitted via a system like a telegraph , which output the result on a " ticker tape " - a continuous long stream of paper . The price quote closest to the ticker tape machine was the most current price . Step Three : The prices out of the pit were reported on devices that could show many stocks at a time , not just one at a time - computers were used to drive the flow of this information . Up to this point , the " market price " for a security was determined by the people shouting at each other . Of course , in order to do a trade , someone had to tell the shouters what to offer and what to accept . Figuring out the right " price " was as much art as science , and a lot of
Oxidation can cause a beer to taste bad very quickly , especially if you 're drinking one with little to no head to keep the oxygen out . The action of drinking the beer effectively mixes it , causing oxidation to happen more quickly . The constant sloshing of beer will also cause a loss of carbonation . Though this wo n't affect the taste too much if you 're drinking your beer quickly , it certainly will if you 're a slow drinker . Temperature is also a factor . The less beer you have in a container , the higher the bottle surface area : beer volume ratio you have . This means the beer will approach the temperature of the glass ( call that room temerature ) quicker , the more you drink . These three factors can combine to leave the end of your beer an unpleasant mouthful .
OJ is not treated the same . The juices on the shelf are pastuerized twice . OJ is n't . This I never found a true answer , but have came across many theories . OJ is a breakfast drink that when people buy it they drink it daily . That means that it does n't need to be treated as much as people drink it faster . This theory holds the most weight in my eyes . Another one is " marketing " as refrigerated items are thought to be fresh . I do n't like this as much as it 's not true in my eyes but I can see the cynicism maybe being able to pull out some theory :)
The others have already pointed out that pi is a * relationship * between the diameter and circumference of a circle . But what does that actually mean , you ask ? Well , imagine that you have a bunch of perfectly - round pennies . Lay them flat on the table in front of you , in a single - file so that the edges are touching . Now , if you were take one of those pennies , stand it on its side , and * roll * it across the table , you would see that - in order to do 1 full revolution - it would roll across exactly 3.14159 ... of the pennies you laid down ! And the great thing is , it does n't matter what size coin you use . A circle will always have this property , no matter how big or how small it may be . It will * always * intersect 3.14159 ... times its diameter in order to complete 1 full revolution . Take a look at [ * * this wikipedia article * * ] ( URL_0 ) . On the right hand side , they have a short .gif image showing this in action .
Meth is a lot like adderall , it makes you focused on one thing for a long time . So , if you 're redditing , you 'd probably sit and reddit for like 14 hours . But if you decide to clean up around the house , you 'd be doing that instead for that time . It depends on what you 're focused on and mind state before taking it . Also , it makes you way too horny . EDIT : You can see how this can easily turn into a vicious cycle of masturbation
they 're finding the one good review and pulling quotes from that . Whenever you see a quote from a reviewer in a TV commercial , you should always look closely to see where the quote comes from . If it 's not from a well - regarded publication , it 's pretty safe to assume the movie 's gon na be bad . Also a reviewer could say Transformers has " epic visuals " but then shit on the rest of the movie , but the commercial will just pull the word " epic " and go with that .
Robot learning is a research field at the intersection of machine learning and robotics. It studies techniques allowing a robot to acquire novel skills or adapt to its environment through learning algorithms. The embodiment of the robot, situated in a physical embedding, provides at the same time specific difficulties (e.g. high-dimensionality, real time constraints for collecting data and learning) and opportunities for guiding the learning process (e.g. sensorimotor synergies, motor primitives). Example of skills that are targeted by learning algorithms include sensorimotor skills such as locomotion, grasping, active object categorization, as well as interactive skills such as joint manipulation of an object with a human peer, and linguistic skills such as the grounded and situated meaning of human language. Learning can happen either through autonomous self-exploration or through guidance from a human teacher, like for example in robot learning by imitation. Robot learning can be closely related to adaptive control, reinforcement learning as well as developmental robotics which considers the problem of autonomous lifelong acquisition of repertoires of skills. While machine learning is frequently used by computer vision algorithms employed in the context of robotics, these applications are usually not referred to as "robot learning".
It is a ship . The Navy , Marines , and Army wanted something to offload their large prepositioning ships ( LMSR specifically ) that did n't require a port , a friendly nation nearby , extreme feats of courage in Lo / Lo - ing ( lifting via crane ) vehicles aboard LCAC 's , or a lot of money . So the Navy , like they always do , designed a ship that could do all that . It was Called the MLP ( Mobile Landing Platform ) . It looked nothing like that ship on Wikipedia . It cost WAY too much . At the same time , NASSCO , a california shipyard , was in trouble . Not selling enough ships , not getting enough new work , bleak future . Congress , and the Navy , saw an opportunity . They told NASSCO , here is a few dimes , build me a fleet of ampbious ships that can : * Launch and recover LCACs * Load vehicles from a LMSR * Lift a metric shit ton of stuff That way , NASSCO could stay open a little longer , and the USN / USMC / USArmy could have a few more toys . NASSCO cut off most of the functional volume of a tanker they already had , put in a few ballast pumps , and called it a day . It was dumb , it was cheap , it was simple , and
I 'm summarizing [ this video ] ( URL_0 ) . The universe is governed by certain physical rules . We know what will happen if we do some elementary experiment like , say , combining vinegar and baking soda or touching two magnets together , or whatever . And we know why this happens on a molecular or atomic level . They are abiding by these rules . Well humans are made of the same stuff as everything else in the world . Water , carbon , etc . And so our bodies , and brains , have to abide by these same rules , at least at a molecular level . So where does free will come in ? We know that the molecules that make up our brain , which control our actions and thoughts , are controlled by these physical laws , so how are we " freely " manipulating them to create free actions ?
Venus 's atmosphere weighs 4.8 * 10 ^ 20 kg . That 's a lot of particles . Earth 's atmosphere weighs 5.15 * 10 ^ 18 kg . Two orders of magnitude less . Even if there was a chemical or nanobot that could effectively react with a majority of the Carbon Dioxide in Venus 's atmosphere , it would take at the least , thousands of years for that reaction to see its way to completion . We 'd also still have to do something about the fact that it has too much mass to be agreeable for us .
You left you the all - important middle man that makes the entire thing possible : The computer itself . The computer draws the image , called a user interface , on the monitor by telling it which pixel ( tiny dots that make up your screen ) should be which color . Different parts of the image are associated with additional programming code that make them interactive when the user clicks on them or what have you . The positions of these things are tracked like things on that coordinate plane from Math Class ( X and Y axes representing sideways and up - down ) . All of this is done by the computer . The mouse sends movement information and button press information to the computer . The mouse moves in two axes interpreted as X and Y. It is worth noting that the mouse DOES NOT tell the computer what its position is . The mouse does not know where it is in relation to the screen ( if you pick up your mouse and move it , save for little hicks caused by lateral movement of the mouse while you pick it up and set it down triggering the movement detection , the cursor will not follow your movements nor " snap " to a spot on the screen ) . Instead , the mouse tells the computer " I am moving along the X axis at velocity A and the Y axis at velocity
Have you seen stories on the local news about some unfortunate kid who has some rare cancer , and their desperate family is holding a fundraiser to scrape together the $ 100,000 + they need for treatment ? That does n't happen in the rest of the developed world . If you get sick , you just go to the doctor and get better . You pay your dues in your taxes every year , and if you need treatment you get it , no questions asked . The American system is like if the fire department was n't tax funded , but instead would n't put your housefire out until you pay them in cash up front .
A wide variety of career choices is certainly valid , the majority of people do n't know what they want to do and may change careers . Plus really in highschool its less about what you actually learn and more about learning to think . Different subjects teach you different ways to approach problems . Its good to have a broad base . Plus knowing some basic math or history etc is never bad . You become better informed . You can appreciate discoveries in different fields better since you have an understanding . In high school it feels pointless when you do nt think you will ever use it but when you are done you rarely look back at it as a waste of time .
China is an Oligarchy , with this group of people belonging to the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China more or less controlling the entire country . It 's a 4 - 9 man ( currently 7 ) committee that holds the most important positions in the country . They get chosen during each National Congress of the Communist Party of China ( held once every 5 years ) and they are selected to be in the committee not because of their ability , but because they belong to the right family and have sucked up to the right people who then tell everyone in the party to vote for them . And also because of seniority .
URL_0 has a pretty good summary . Basically , they wanted to test a last - line - of - defense system . In case of a power outage , they wanted to know if they could manage to safely control the cooling system . To test this , they shut off most of the other safety measures and ran the plant at low power to test it . At the end of the experiment , they re - inserted the control rods . However , a particular flaw of that particular reactor design made it so when they put the control rods back in place , the energy spiked , causing the coolant to flash boil . With no effective cooling and energy continuing to rapidly rise , the whole core exploded .
Fish and humans are very different . Rewiring a human in this manor is well outside the abilities of current science . We can barely put ourselves back together again after we get hurt . The first lung transplants were not that long ago and they came from another living human . We can not currently grow a set of human lungs ( from scratch ) and insert them into a living human . So we are quite far away from growing some human but still air breathing style lungs and inserting them into humans . Let alone modifying those lungs to a new design . You are effectively asking . Why are we not at step 1020 of medical science . The response is that we are currently at step 3 , so we have quite a way to go before we get to 1020 .
Real life is never as simple as a 10 second news clip or a 3 sentence reddit post , but some important aspects of the case are that the victim ' allegedly ' pointed a gun at the plainclothes officers . The gun was found on the scene , but there are some witnesses who say he did n't draw any weapon . Some of the people protesting have gone into bodegas and pharmacies and both smashed goods and attacked people in those stores . Constitutional rights do n't extend to rioting and destroying property of your other community members . inb4 the clamoring : None of us knows if he pointed a gun or not at this point and my saying he 's alleged to do so does n't mean that I believe it or condone his being shot for it .
You pay interest every month on a loan . If the second loan is much shorter and/or at a lower interest rate this can be a good idea to save money overall . That 's called " refinancing " and it happens all the time . If the new loan is n't really different than the previous one then you 're just wasting the loan origination fees . Banks do n't extend new loans for free .
> Really what I 'm trying to figure out is what exactly gravity is . We do n't yet have a solid answer for that . We know gravity 's effects , and the way in which these effects affect things , but we do n't know yet what exactly mediates gravity . We know some things about it ; like that a gravity field is proportional to the mass of an object , and that gravity fields propagate at the speed of light . But we do n't know what mediates gravity , and figuring that out will be a big part of figuring out what exactly it is . Quantum Field Theory , which is the most up - to - date generally accepted theory in particle physics , predicts the existence of a particle called a graviton which mediates gravity , but to date we 've not seen one . If the graviton exists we know a few things about it ; that it has to be massless - as gravity fields propagate at the speed of light and have infinite range , this means that the particle mediating it must have those two properties ( EDIT : Rather - the particle must be massless in order to have those two properties ) . We also know that it must be a spin-2 boson ( for reasons which are a bit beyond ELI5 level ; it has to do with the way in which gravity 's effects
A neural network is a network or circuit of biological neurons, or, in a modern sense, an artificial neural network, composed of artificial neurons or nodes. Thus, a neural network is either a biological neural network, made up of biological neurons, or an artificial neural network, used for solving artificial intelligence (AI) problems. The connections of the biological neuron are modeled in artificial neural networks as weights between nodes. A positive weight reflects an excitatory connection, while negative values mean inhibitory connections. All inputs are modified by a weight and summed. This activity is referred to as a linear combination. Finally, an activation function controls the amplitude of the output. For example, an acceptable range of output is usually between 0 and 1, or it could be −1 and 1. These artificial networks may be used for predictive modeling, adaptive control and applications where they can be trained via a dataset. Self-learning resulting from experience can occur within networks, which can derive conclusions from a complex and seemingly unrelated set of information.
There 's a great episode of * Derren Brown Investigates * in which he explains how cold reading works . I 'm pretty sure it 's on Youtube . This is the stuff they do whilst " channeling " dead people . * Get the subject to give you as much info as possible - things like saying " Why is his spirit saying the word " pub " to me ? " Then the subject will offer up some story involving the deceased and a pub which the " medium " can expand on whilst making it look like he 's got all the info from the spirit . * Throw out a load of guaranteed hits to make it all seem more convincing - thing like " She did n't have much energy towards the end . " That 's going to be true for anyone because people generally do n't have much energy just before they die . * Use negatives and question tags questions in a way that makes them a hit no matter what the answer is : " You do n't have a brother , do you ? " - whether they say yes or no you can say " Yep , I thought so " and chalk it up as a hit . * Move on from any misses as quickly as possible , or blame them on the voices being muddled or something .
Most people in the UK are happy with the idea of a common market for goods and services which is what the EU was set up to be . They are largely ok with the free movement of people but like people in France and elsewhere have concerns over people from poorer countries coming over in large numbers . However the anti EU crowd is very against any sort of moves towards an EU ' country ' , ' state ' or ' superstate ' , ( often compared to the United States of America . ) They are against the EU having powers over Defence , foreign affairs , social affairs etc . Most people in the UK want these powers to stay with the UK Parliament . A compromise could be made allowing the UK to stay out of this sort of further integration and then the UK would probably be happy to stay in the EU . If they UK left the EU they would likely negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU like Norway , Switzerland and Morocco have . It could easily be a mishandled exit and might have short term impacts . However , long term it wo n't be a big deal economically for the UK or Europe . Plenty of industrialised countries have done fine without large multi country economic areas both now and in the past . America did fine with an EU equivalent , Japan does n't have anything
Remember that items like screw head formats are a product of hundreds of years of evolution , with each new generation / system improving on the previous standards and having issues of their own ... Flat headed screws were simple and basic , but annoying to centre . Philips used modern / improved production techniques to make a more easily driven screw ( albeit at the expense of being more easily stripped ) Hex head made a system that allowed for a more positive connection , but had more reliance on correct sized drivers ( which gives issues and potential problems when you also add a mix of metric and imperial ) Torx and Robertson introduced more upgrades and simpler sizing , but are currently more of a niche product and typically more expensive ... You also get the additional collection of less common systems designed as tamper proof or for specific uses like tri - wing screws or security bits . The biggest issue is that we do n't instantly switch standards - we have old products requiring old standards , different systems will be more suitable in different products and even when there are clear benefits , big companies are slow to adapt thanks to costs , backward compatibilities and a whole myriad of other reasons , so we end up stuck with a myriad of competing and incompatible systems . While it would be lovely to come to a planet wide agreement to use torx , somehow
A quick answer is World War I was disastrous for the British . They won , and their empire was bigger than ever after taking Germany 's colonies , but they lost hundreds of thousands of men ( who if lived could have been stationed overseas to supervise colonies ) , countless supplies , and money . Lots of it . World War II was even worse . We do n't hear about it in the US , but the UK actually went BANKRUPT winning the war . The UK went from the richest nation in the world to flat broke in 40years . The US gave the UK massive loans ( which were just recently repaid in full ! ) otherwise the UK would have crumbled on itself . After the war , a broke Britain looked at colonies as liabilities rather than assets . Coupled with independence movements , Britain slowly gave up the colonies . Note this did n't happen overnight . The Empire was a huge source of pride for the British and they slowly let them go over decades following WWII . From India to Hong Kong , it was over a half century of letting them go on their own , though many happened in the 60s , particularly in Africa .
These are the rules I go by in Germany . They work in the business world . I know the rules are different in other countries so it might be different where you live . When at a private event , it depends on the event . Sometimes shaking hands is not appropriate . But then there are rules that determine who greets first . Many people are not aware of this and do not know the rules . If they should greet you and do not , then its your turn . But do n't mention the rules . That might embarrass them . * As long as the other person is not a friend , shaking hands is the only appropriate form of greeting . * The person with the higher rank offers his / her hand to the person of lower rank ( boss offers hand to employees , HR - Person offers hand to aplicant etc ) . * If same rank or the rank is unknown : Person who comes last _ greets _ first , younger person _ greets _ older person , man _ greets _ woman , host _ greets _ guest , single person _ greets _ group . BUT : Older person _ offers hand _ to younger person , woman _ offers hand _ to man , host _ offers hand _ to guest , someone in the group _ offers hand _ to new person ! * Take
Picture the early solar system as a toilet . Gravity started pulling everything together ( like the drain ) with the sun at the center . Like a toilet , it spins as it pulls together . The planets and other objects were areas with higher gravity , so they pulled other things to them and formed cohesive balls . In the end , everything kept that momentum built up by gravity pulling it inward .
Scientologists believe that a few million years ago , an alien dumped people on earth . He equiped everyone with a special thing that makes people powerful and need thousands of dollars of " therapy " to make it come to life . This is why Scientology appeals to money - seekers . Famous people are used for publicity , so they can make more .
You 're applying a net downward force that 's greater than your weight . Since the floor pushes up against you with the same magnitude of force that you push on it , and since the floor certainly is n't going anywhere , this means that you are pushed up off the floor . Gravity then takes over and drags you back down .
Imagine a couple having their house painted , but they ca n't agree what color to do the bedroom in . They tell the painter to do the bedroom last , and pick a color they both hate , in the hopes it will motivate them to come to a compromise of some sort . Well , the painter is just finishing up the living room , and they still have n't agreed on a color , and might have to live with the florescent pink for while . That 's where congress is right now . In order to pass what is usually a routine debt ceiling bill , they put a bunch budget cuts in that everyone will hate , to go into effect at the beginning of 2013 . Just passing another extension is n't a simple thing , because congress has been deadlocked , and ca n't agree to pass * anything * . That was the whole idea of the financial cliff , to force a do nothing congress to do something .
Cancer is when your cells mutate and start to divide uncontrollably ( normally they stop and perform specific functions ) and one of the things that can cause your cells to mutate is cellular damage ( mainly damage to DNA which is like your cells instruction manual ) . simply put the chemicals in cigarettes when burned and inhaled are really good at causing cellar damage that can lead to cancer . This typically leads to lung cancer since that 's ground zero for where the chemicals are entering the body but the chemicals also make it into your blood stream and can cause all sorts of types of cancer .
The Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence was a 1956 summer workshop widely considered to be the founding event of artificial intelligence as a field. The project lasted approximately six to eight weeks and was essentially an extended brainstorming session. Eleven mathematicians and scientists originally planned to attend; not all of them attended, but more than ten others came for short times.
TL;DR . Our brains can tell something is wrong with what we 're seeing , but we ca n't quite figure out what it is . You watch a cartoon . It looks like a cartoon and it looks fake , and it 's enjoyable . And you watch a show with actors and they look real , and it 's enjoyable . But what if someone created a show using CGI that looks like actors , but for some reason they do n't seem real and you do n't know why . This is show falls into the uncanny valley . This can happen with anything that our brains have perceived A LOT of . We see certain things very frequently : walking , facial expressions , and even things like blinking at regular intervals . Our brains , without us thinking about it , can tell when something is " wrong , " but we do n't necessary know what it is . Here is an example of walking with uncanny valley . Looks good ! But something is wrong : URL_0
I am not aware of any evidence of any western governments tracking ' illegal ' downloads . Most file - sharing is not ' illegal ' in the sense of committing a crime that harms society in general ( such as theft or assault ) . But it does breach copyright laws . Breach of copyright is a * tort * , a civil crime in which an individual who is wronged can sue for damages . In order to sue for damages , evidence that meets certain standards must be acquired . Large trade organisations , copyright enforcement groups and smaller security firms seeking to earn a quick buck monitor file - sharing downloads in order to obtain the details of participants .
While " organic " is becoming just a marketing trend , there is a big difference if you compare , for example , eggs from chicken that have been raised free range in countryside and factory " made " eggs . They look different , taste different and there have been studies that show higher nutritional value as well . Of course they are more random in their sizes and appearances too . Yeah , and bacteria count too , but I would n't be too worried about that if you do n't eat them raw and know how to store products properly . I have been living in countryside raising my own food , and let me tell you that " organic " is nt any closer to own grown food than nonorganic food . Now that I live in city I only buy food straight from known farmers .
Lasers have something like that . The laser has two mirrors facing at each other . The medium between them is active so that it will radiate light in random direction when you pump energy to it . Since the directions are random some of the emitted light is emitted so that it is trapped between the two mirrors . Now that you havelight bouncing in between the mirrors the lasing effect can happen . The light bouncing in the medium will stimulate the medium so that it emitts light that is identical to the light already bouncing in . You get more and more light bouncing between the mirrors . To get the laser beam out one of the mirrors allows some light through . Also high reflectance is n't enough . The mirrors must be placed so that the light bouncing in between them forms a standing wave . Otherwise light will leak out . Without forming standing wave light will leak out even if the mirrors have perfect 100 % reflectance and they are in vacuum .
Imagine a square , side length x Its area is x ^ 2 If we work out its derivative we will know the rate at which the area changes as the side length changes The derivative is 2 * x If you have two lines of length x , and glue one on to the top of the square , and one on to the side , you could say you 've made the square bigger by the thickness of the line . You 've increased its area by 2 * x ( you 've added two lines of length x ) As long as you are increasing the side length , the area is increasing at this relative rate . There are lots of sophisticated ways to work out the relative Integrals and Derivatives , but what they are useful for is knowing how characteristics of a system change relative to one , or just a few key variables .
I overcame a stutter after 20 + years of terrible struggling . I would speak really fast , to the point where I would repeat and jumble together syllables ( especially at the beginning of sentences ) . When I was a high school student , I found it crushingly hard to read aloud in class or even talk to people in a casual setting . It 's quite embarrassing , and makes you feel very self conscious . I 've been told that witnessing a struggling stutter sometimes makes people feel uncomfortable , but trust me , for the stutter , it 's a million times worse . Nonetheless , I could get by . I had good days and bad days . I would estimate that , at its worse , my condition was mild to moderate . There are some poor souls who literally ca n't complete a sentence , who have uncontrollable verbal ticks with every attempt at speech . It 's utterly life destroying and heartbreaking . For these people , I can only imagine the extent to which they must feel trapped within their own bodies , unable to have a basic conversation without completely melting down . Now I am in my mid - twenties , and have mostly worked through my stuttering . Things started to turn around when I was a university student , and was interning at a company where I had to spend a lot of time speaking to
Hi there ! Thanks for your question . The solution to this problem was by using a [ synchronization gear ] ( URL_1 ) . It was basically a cam - like system which only allowed the gun to fire when the propeller shaft was in a certain position . You 'd just make sure that you designed the system so that the gun only fired when the propeller was out of the way ! [ Here ] ( URL_0 ) is a video illustrating the mechanism . Interestingly , this style of design means that your gun can only fire at a rate related to the speed at which your propeller is turning !
There 's gon na be a shitstorm here . A lot of people think it * is * racist , so there 's that , first of all . You 'll hear terms like " reverse discrimination " or " counter - racism " a lot if you talk with anti - affirmative action people . The reasons that advocates of AA do n't consider it racist are : First off , AA is a countermeasure against centuries of discrimination against the minorities it 's attempting to benefit . There are significant wealth , education , and income gaps between the power elite , i.e. white men , and minorities like women and racial and ethnic minorities ( note : I 'm using the * sociological * definition of " minority , " which is not the same as a minority by * population * ) . AA is an attempt to alleviate those gaps by giving those minority groups a leg up so that they can compete . Therefore , they would say , affirmative action is not a discriminatory policy , it 's an attempt to re - balance the scales after they 've been tipped for so long in a certain group 's favor . Second , there 's the " merit " argument . What many opponents of AA argue is that while there are disparities in things like wealth and income , it 's unfair to give certain groups a leg up because of their
* Marketing will often quote the size in gigabytes ( 1000 megabytes ) , while your computer will often report the value in gibibytes ( 1024 mibibytes ) . This is done because some people are n't aware of the difference and therefore it makes the numbers look bigger . * Filesystems all have some amount of overhead , so the total size of all files stored will not equal the size of the drive . ( Not sure if this effect would be big enough to show up though ) .
It should be pretty obvious that without knowing what sort of assets the company owns, and what sort of net earnings are being generated it's impossible to say what a $20k equity investment should get you in terms of ownership percentage. With that said, you want to look at a few to several years of books, look for trends. Some things to understand that might be subtle red flags: It's extremely common for early stage investors to essentially make loans rather than strictly buying shares. In the worst case scenario creditors get to participate in liquidation proceedings before shareholders do. You may be better off investing in this business via a loan that's convertible to equity at your discretion. Single owner service companies are difficult because all of the net earnings go to the proprietor and that person maintains all of the relationships. So taking something like 5 years of net earnings as the value of the company doesn't make much sense because you (or someone else) couldn't just step in and replace the owner. Granted, you aren't contemplating taking over the business, but it negates using an X years of net earnings valuation method. When you read about valuation there is a sort of overriding assumption that no single person could topple the operation which couldn't be farther from the truth in single employee service companies. Additionally, understand that your investment in a single owner company hinges completely on one person's ability and willingness to work. It's really vital
Yikes ! Tough topic . Here 's something interesting though ... " Pederasty " has been somewhat commonplace for hundreds of years . A grown man would take a boy as an apprentice , and over time a relationship would form between the two . Oftentimes the parents of the child would know the relationship had become sexual and would think nothing of it . All kinds of professionals would partake in pederasty . But in the Catholic Church , it 's a terrible sin for a priest to engage in any sexual activity . It seems sexual relationships with children was more common in the past .
Some people are more likely to get hypnotized . Have you ever tried to get the attention of someone that 's really into a book ? They might as well be living in those fantasy worlds ! Well , those kind of people tend to be more easily hypnotizeable . So they 're more likely to get " into " a hypnotized state , if you will . Basically hypnotism is very inward thinking . Some hypnotism , for example , can get rid of pain . When it 's gone , it 's like magic ! But really , it 's just thinking about other stuff instead of " ouch I broke my leg " . You ever get those cuts that you 've probably had all day , and when you see the cuts it starts hurting ? It 's kinda like that . As for why people do silly things when they 're hypnotized ? It 's a mix of authority figure , placebo , and role - playing . You have to listen to the guy in charge ( or your parents ! ) . You think it 'll work , so it probably will . And you role - play to not disappoint , or to be a good example . Source : Myers , Psychology 8th Edition
remember that in our system , the voters are cut up into 2 parties , the did not naturally split into two groups . Smaller groups that have the same interests get together with other groups that they can work with until they can get 51 % of the vote , and the national party platform is an average of the groups it contains . Candidates for president incorporate every element of the party to some degree(usually ) but the voters are still very different from each other . Since Reagan , the Republicans have been a coalition of : Social Conservatives : who want to impose Christian Right values on the country . ( Santorum , George W. Bush to an extent ) Old - School 20th century Republicans : who think government is good , but focus on using it to address economic issues ( John McCain , Bush Sr . ) Libertarians : who want more freedoms in general . ( the Pauls ) The Party as a whole has to play somewhat to each of these groups , but that does n't mean each group likes every aspect of it . Social Conservatives annoy Libertarians with cultural programs , but less than Left - wing culture police would , and since social conservatives are more open to economic freedom , they can be made to get along . Both dislike parts of the other , but understand it is their best option . Do n't confuse
Often they believe it was n't this big systemic thing . Jewish people were killed , but not much more than any other flavor - of - the - month racism target . Camps were for protection from ghettoes , the gas - showers did n't happen , just explain it all away . And it 's just played up ( easy to do , jews own hollywood ) so that they can benefit from people 's guilt . Source , my father , though I 'm hazy on it because I just walk away when he tells me I should read X book or listen to X lecture with a title like " The Holocaust : Researching both sides " or whatever .
Both H.323 and SIP are call signaling protocols that are independent of the media flows . I can get as technical as you want , but appreciating this is an ELI5 question , I 'll try to keep it simple . If you want to pick up the phone and call somebody , your phone needs to somehow get in touch with the person you 're trying to call . That 's what call signaling protocols do . It 's similar to when you open your web browser and visit a web site . Your browser establishes a connection ( possibly through one or more intermediary devices called " proxies " ) that connect your browser to the web server you 're trying to contact . When you pick up the phone and either dial a number or enter a URI ( e.g. , h323:user@example.com ) , then your H.323 or SIP software will send a SETUP message ( in the case of H.323 ) or INVITE message ( in the case of SIP ) to the person associated with the phone number or URI . Those messages might go directly or might go through any number of intermediary devices to reach the final destination . Along with that initial message , there will be information ( message elements ) that describe the type of media you support ( e.g. , audio or video , and what specific encoding formats ) . Sometimes , that information is exchanged in a
1 ) Income 2 ) They are allies protecting their interests . Or , the enemies of our enemies are our friends 3 ) they 're usually low - grade weapons that do n't harm us . ie , we sell f14s to Israel . Even if they started war with us , we have f22s that would obliterate them
A hallucination is basically sensing something that is n't there . There are many kinds of hallucinations such as ones you see or hear or even smell . What causes them can depend on what kind of hallucination but there are 3 basic causes that people think are it ; first is psychophysiological which is when the wiring in your brain gets tweaked , psychobiochemical which is when something like drugs affect neurotransmitters or signal senders in the brain giving it mixed messages , another speculated cause is psychodynamic or when your subconscious starts messing with like if you have past trauma . Sometimes hallucinations have more than one cause . We do n't really have a reason for having them so much as they are a kind of " brain mistake " which confuses your senses .
From what I understand , it depends on the point in development that you get the production of cells with the extra chromosome . First , you have a processed called ' meiosis ' that creates mum 's eggs and dad 's sperm . This is when cells split apart to halve the number of chromosomes they have . This means that mum 's chromosomes in the egg can join with dad 's chromosome 's in the sperm to make the normal number of chromosomes again . Usually , a cell from mum or dad , you or me , would have 46 chromosomes . But each of these are paired up with a friend , so that you have 23 X - shaped friendly chromosome pairs . During meiosis , the friendly chromosome pairs swap some of their genetic information with other friendly chromosome pairs . The cell then divides in two and puts half of the chromosome pairs in one half and the other in the other . But sometimes the friendly chromosomes stick themselves together too tightly and ' nondysjunction ' occurs . This means that there are too many chromosomes going into one cell and not enough in the other cell . ( This can occur at either Meiosis I or Meiosis II ) . In this case , all of the cells that then grew from this ovum or spermatozoa would also be given too many chromosomes . This is what happens in Down Syndrome
Checks are silly nowadays . Since a law passed years ago that defines the image of the check as the actual check ( and the check itself as merely a record of the " real " check , which actually is n't real ) , you do n't need an actual check for anything anymore . In other words , you can Photoshop a check and email it to someone and that 's the actual check , even though the physical check never existed . The law was changed to be this way to allow online and by - wire banking . We should be able to make money transfers now without checks at all via things like Google Wallet .
There is no way to find out what future will be if you have only quote from past. In other words, nobody is able to trade history successfully and nobody will be able, ever. Quote's movement is not random. Quote is not price. Because brokerage account is not actual money. Any results in past do not guarantee you anything. Brokerage accounts should only have portions of money which you are ready to loose completely. Example: Investment firms recommended buying falling Enron stocks, even when it collapsed 3 times, then - bankrupt, suddenly. What a surprise!
1 . She was old . After the retirement of * JFK , * * Enterprise * was the oldest carrier in the fleet . It was her time . 2 . She was expensive . The * Enterprise * had 8 reactors , compared to the * Nimitz*-class 's 2 . This added extra cost and complexity . In addition , the standardization of the * Nimitz * carriers from a hull - design perspective made putting major upgrades into * Enterprise * a big hassle . 3 . Someone has to pay to keep Newport News open . There is only one facility in the world capable of building aircraft carriers ; by having them continuously churn them out we maintain that capability of building them ( and avoiding the huge cost problems of a program like the JSF ) , and it 's a big jobs program for the state of Virginia . Congress like pork . 4 . There are no ' other ships in her class ' - * Enterprise * was a one - ship class . All other carriers are of the * Nimitz * class . So I guess you could say that all the ships in the * Enterprise * class * have * been decommissioned . * Enterprise * was the first nuclear carrier - she was built as sort of a ' technology ' demonstrator before the ramifications of the technology were really understood . Rather than using a
Dear friend,As per your detail, you have neck swelling and chest swelling. if i am treating doctor, then i would like to examine the swelling first. Diagnosis can confirmed after examination only. A neck lump may be a lymphnode swelling and other swelling on chest me be lipoma or other cyst like sebaceous cyst. Lymphnode sweliing may subside itself, but lipoma or sebaceous cyst needs excision.Thank You.
I have a thermos bottle . If I put coffee in it , it keeps the coffee hot . If I put iced tea in it it keeps the tea cool . How does it know what to do ? There is no more knowledge in a virus than there is in my thermos . Neither is alive , and yet neither acts by chance . Both are mechanical , if your definition of mechanical includes chemistry . Most of " what happens " when a virus gets into you is not done by the virus , it 's done by your body to try and defeat / remove the virus .
You 've heard particles are like waves right ? While it 's not the full story , lets consider them as waves for now . Now , think of a particle with a momentum as a ripple in a pond . Is the wave in one place ? No , in fact , it can spread out an incredibly large distance ! So then how do we ever get particles that look like they 're in one place ? Well , waves can interact with each other . More specifically , they can combine to become even bigger waves , or cancel each other out to become smaller or even nothing . You can try to picture this in your head , but remember the details do n't matter for this explanation . Just wrap your head around the fact that they CAN do this for some combination of waves . So you have your original wave . We can add a second wave to it that cancels it out , but only in some places . There are now two waves , but that combine to form wave takes up less space then either one . We can add more and more . Until we have all of these waves that happen to add up to just one tiny area being the only one that moves . That is now a particle acting like a particle . It now has one position . But what are all these waves
This is definitely useful for determining when someone is using too many big words , but we should be careful to distinguish between * reading * ease and * understanding * ease . Five year olds can barely * read * at all , yet that 's what this index is measuring . It 's also [ based ] ( URL_0 ) entirely on the number of 3 + syllable words per sentence — meaning that " elephant " would count as an advanced word , while " quark " would not . So , potentially helpful as a guideline , but far from infallible .
It very simply refers to the temperature a metal is worked at . Cold working means simply working the metal as it is , hot working means working it when it 's hot . Hot working obviously requires the metal to be heated , but makes it softer , as well as leaving less residual internal stresses behind ( by heating the metal , internal stresses can be allowed to resolve ) . Cold working typically creates internal stresses .
I ... I ca n't believe I know this . It 's fluid dynamics . As the urine travels down your urethra it is under almost equal pressure from all sides . As the liquid escapes it loses contact with the vessel . Through a process called adhesion the water in your product will experience a drag effect as the contact with the waste channel is extinguished . This drag is greatest in areas that contain the most perturbation . The shape of the orifice that produces the stream produces the vast majority of the perturbative influence . In this case the opening is a slit which produces semi - toroidal flows in the medium at the polar vertices . Combine these forces ( The sudden loss of pressure , the semi - toroidal flows , and adhesion ) and the net effect is a torsion force on the stream . The torsion force impels the fluid to twist and cohesion ( water molecules are kind of like tiny magnets and really want to stick together ) keeps the stream together . There you have it . Why your urine spirals instead of just flowing out like a garden hose . EDIT : changed adhesion to cohesion in the last bit , my mistake(I typed this at work and did n't take the time to proof - read ) . Also ; to those pointing out the navicular fossa you are correct in the biological sense . I was going
Well Timmy , your body needs food for energy , and they need all kinds of different food for different reasons . If your body does n't need any more nutrients from the food , it releases it and you poop . Those are the ideal circumstances . When the body encounters a problem , and does n't trust the food you 've given it , it speeds up the release process and waters it down so it passes more quickly . This can happen if you 're sick , and the body is rejecting some foods , or if there 's something wrong with the food and the body needs to get rid of it to keep you from getting sick .
Spanish - American War the US took control of the Philippines , Guam , and some other islands , as well as naming Cuba a protectorate ( with the Platt Amendment ) . Also annexing Hawaii a few years down the road . That 's basically what it is , taking control of other foreign powers and/or stealing them from other empires . Like when Europe encroached on Africa , that sort of thing .
I 'm writing a video game . The graphics do n't work as well as I 'd like so I come up with an idea to makes it faster . It might not be any better though . So I commit what I 've done and make changes so I can test them . If it does n't work any better I can just abandon my changes . If it does work I can commit them and share them with everyone else If I change my mind later on , each commit has a unique I 'd ( that long string of hex numbers ) so I can go back to that later if I want to . All my changes are happening in my own local branch . Other people can work with the unchanged code and make their changes . I can get their changes and merge with a local branch . Then merge my changes , and not push until I 'm sure my changes work with theirs . I can even create multiple local branches so I can work on one thing , put it aside and work on something more urgent without having to push my half - finished work or abandon what I 've done .
Okay , so photons are the most simple way we can describe electromagnetic radiation ( which includes radio waves , infrared , visible light , ultraviolet light , x - rays , and gamma rays ) - you can think of a photon of being something that a contains energy that can not be divided up any further . This is often stated as a photon being the * quantum * of light . They carry the force for electromagnetism ( the interactions between charged particles ) and this force can be seen on both microscopic and macroscopic levels . A photon is also a type of particle called a boson , meaning that it does not have to obey the Pauli exclusion principal like things like electrons , protons , and neutrons , which are fermions . Photons are uncharged , and they have a rest mass of 0 , which allows them to travel long distances between interactions with other particles , which is made possible because they have a non - zero momentum . Photons display behaviors of both particles and waves . They 're wavelike in the sense that they act as a disturbance / oscillation that travels through space with frequencies , wavelengths and amplitudes , and particle - like because you can think of them as objects when they bounce around and interact with other particles like electrons . The frequencies and wavelengths determine what " color " they 'll be in regards to
The value of a stock market is that it 's an easy - access forum for people who want to invest in companies that they believe in . Without the stock market , it would be difficult for people to invest in businesses . If companies wanted funds , it would be more word - of - mouth , getting money from friends / family / other professionals , etc . As you can imagine , this is hard to keep up if you want your business to grow to a very large scale ( though there are some companies that have grown very large without participating directly in the stock market ) . So without the stock market , businesses would generally be smaller and perhaps slower to get money for their operations .
[ I have asked this question before ] ( URL_0 ) , and got a very good discussion going ... here is the major point , to me : When you have a large amount of cash , you have to put it somewhere . Parking $ 100,000,000 in a bank is not risk - free . Taking it out in $ 100 ( or 100 euro ) bills turns cash into something * physical * , needing storage and protection - you ca n't just stick it in the basement . And with interest rates so low , you may actually be * charged * to hold money at a bank . So the purchase of negative yield bonds might be cheaper than the bank fees . Investing in government bonds , even with a negative yield , might be better than basically making an unsecured loan to a bank .
On a longer time scale, the plot thickens: It almost looks random. A large drop in real rates in the mid-70s, a massive spike in the early 80s, followed by a slow multi-decade decline. The chaos doesn't seem to be due to interest rates. They steadily climbed and steadily fell: All that's left is inflation: First, real rates should be expected to pay a moderate rate, so nominal rates will usually be higher than inflation. However, interest rates are very stable over long time periods while inflation is not. Economists call this type of phenomenon "sticky pricing", where the price, interest rates in this case, do not change much despite the realities surrounding them. But the story is a little more complicated. In the early 1970s, Nixon had an election to win and tried to lessen the impacts of recession by increasing gov't spending, not raising taxes, and financing through the central bank, causing inflation. The strategy failed, but he was reelected anyways. This set the precedent for the hyperinflation of the 1970s that ended abruptly by Reagan at the beginning of his first term in the early 1980s. Again, interest rates remained sticky, so real rates spiked. Now, the world is not growing, almost stagnating. Demand for equity is somewhat above average, but because corporate income is decelerating, and the developed world's population is aging, demand for investment income is skyrocketing. As demand rises, so does the price, which for an investor is a form of inverse of the
There are a bunch of good answers here : investors , potential employees , increasing their value to the airlines by appealing directly to the airlines ' customers . However , one that has n't been mentioned may be connected to why you 're asking this question . Did you see an ad for Boeing today one on of the Sunday morning talk shows like Meet the Press ? Boeing frequently advertises on MTP , because of some of the people who watch that show : government decision - makers , people who work in Congress or the Defense Department . They are appealing to the people who make or can influence large purchasing decisions for the US government and military , and in fact you may note that these ads tend to have a flavor of " Boeing supports the US military and has reliably done so for many years . " This increases the chances of them receiving lucrative government contracts which form a huge portion of their business .
It orignally started(in usa at least ) after the american civil war . There were many black people with no where to go since they never got the 40 acres and a mule promised to them . They were unwanted and had no where to go and no way to get above poverty , no education . So Unlce Sam came to the rescue and made it illegal to be a " vagrant " so that they could justify locking African Americans up and keeping them suppressed . Also these vagrants would be used as free labor once in prison . At first these laws were targeted to African Americans but over time they evolved to include homeless people of any color .
TPB is openly mocking the copyright industry . That puts a big target on them . Also , thay make it a political statement and ideology , and that scares the copyright industry . Other sites keep a low profile , and does not make it a political movement , just a " get files here " . Another difference is that the Swedish government happily does whatever USA asks , even if it means ignoring our laws .
If you look at the [ fire triangle ] ( URL_0 ) ( a simple way of understanding what 's needed for a fire ) , water screws up all of them . Mainly water is cold compared to a fire , so it absorbs a lot of heat , turning into steam . So that 's heat beaten . For oxygen and fuel , water ca n't be burned -- mainly because it already has been burned . The major product of combustion is water . Also it can help to spread out the fire 's fuel .
TL;DR For the whistleblower protections to apply to journalists , they ca n't have had any hand in obtaining the classified information . However they can publish information that is freely given to them if it meets the right requirements . Snowden obviously had a hand in obtaining the classified information , so he would n't be protected as a journalist .
Pawning is actually one of the earliest forms of credit . You bring an item of value to the pawn broker and you borrow money from him against the item . He holds on to the item as collateral and you have a certain amount of time ( usually 60 - 90 days ) to pay him back plus interest . When you pay back your debt you get your item back and the broker makes money from the interest . If you do n't pay him back , he sells the item put up for collateral and makes his money back that way . They usually never lend you more than the item is worth so they will hardly ever lose money .
The majority of automobiles in the US run on gasoline . It 's considered the standard . You warn people when something differs from the standard and using it would have negative consequences . If you put diesel in a gasoline engine , it wo n't run & you 'll have to tear it apart to get it working again . Gasoline causes problems in diesel engines too but it 's assumed that people running diesel know that they need to watch out .
Let 's say you want to show the world that you 're really angry at your treatment . REALLY angry . Like , psychopathically angry . What would be a good way to do that ? Well , you could go on a big terrorist rampage to show your dismay . But for a certain type of person , killing others who are either innocent , or just doing their job for an authoritarian regime , is n't very palatable . What 's another way of making a VERY strong statement about how angry you are ? How about purposely subjecting yourself to intense agony , in a very spectactular and visible way ? That 's what self - immolation is . It 's probably the strongest possible way of telling people how angry you are .
Analog is just a signal that can have any value , ideally between two given points . To make it digital , you need to sample that . You have a bit depth , which the more bits the more different levels of the analog signal you can record . You have a sample rate , which is how many samples you have in a given time , usually by a second . For example , a compact disc is 16 bits , which means each channel has 65,536 distinct audio levels , in the neighborhood of a 3V spread . It has a sample rate of 44.1 Khz , meaning there are 44,100 samples each second .
Well ... nuclear weapons are kept in large underground silos designed withstand attacks from other nuclear weapons . And they are designed not to go off of you just blow it up . It takes a very precise chain of events to detonate a nuke . So no . If you could find one out of its silo or its weapon storage facility at most you would make a dirty bomb . Yes you would destroy that weapon but if your talking about a larger country they have dozens if not thousands more and you just started a war .
On Monday, the 27th of June 2011, the XIV ETF underwent a 10:1 share split. The Yahoo Finance data correctly shows the historic price data adjusted for this split. The Google Finance data does not make the adjustment to the historical data, so it looks like the prices on Google Finance prior to 27 June 2011 are being quoted at 10 times what they should be. Coincidentally, the underlying VIX index saw a sudden surge on the Friday (24 June) and continued on the Monday (27 June), the date that the split took effect. This would have magnified the bearish moves seen in the historic price data on the XIV ETF. Here is a link to an article detailing the confusion this particular share split caused amongst investors. It appears that Google Finance was not the only one to bugger it up. Some brokers failed to adjust their data causing a lots of confusion amongst clients with XIV holdings at the time. This is a recurring problem on Google Finance, where the historic price data often (though not always) fails to account for share splits.
Tort Reform is changing the laws regarding how easy it is to sue doctors . If it were harder to sue doctors then healthcare costs would end up lower in general because less costs would be incurred by doctors and hospitals . This lowered cost for healthcare is really quite small though , and no one knowledgeable in the full costs of the healthcare system would think Tort Reform is the silver bullet to fix our healthcare costs . It would have a relatively minor impact on costs . Edit - 007 T provides a detailed explanation of what the phrase means , mine is context - specific with regard to how the phrase is commonly used by people today .
Whether people are lazy or not is a subjective question , there is no scientific way to say if people are actually lazy , because science ca n't define laziness . Everyone is lazy to some extent and everyone is active to some extent . But consider that anthropologists and sociologists have studied some of the most primitive societies on Earth , indigenous people still largely isolated and without much technology . And they found that in these societies people work ( gathering food , building shelter , etc . ) only a few hours each day . It is a matter of opinion , but my opinion is that most humans are not built to work 8 hours a day , 5 or 6 days a week , and the fact that we do is a huge contributor to mental illness .
Computers count in multiples of 2 . Like 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 33 , 64 , 128 , 256 . 256 had the distinction of being 2 raised to the 8th power which is significant because a byte , the unit of storage is 8 bits . Each bit can be a 0 or 1 , two possible values , so there are 256 different bytes that are possible . The IP version 4 protocol allows four numbers and each number can have 256 different values ( there are however numbers within that range that are reserved that you 're not allowed to use ) . The numbers can be 0 so therefore the highest number is 255 . You 'll notice that many other things computer related , like colors are also on a scale from 0 to 255 .
5 m down is not what would be called a small hole if we are talking about working round a property . Depending on the type of ground you are digging it could start to collapse on itself after abuot 1 m , sometimes even less . Do n't fuck around with something like this if you do n't know what you are doing .
Because that what a waiver does . You are saying " I understand that equipment sometimes breaks , but I am accepting that risk and want to go on the ride anyway . " If you do n't agree , you should n't sign the waiver . If you do and change your mind after , you are basically a liar . That said , no waiver protects against * * criminal * * activity . If it can be shown that the operators knew , or should have known , the ride was defective or not properly maintained , then you would have both a criminal and civil case against them .
Before digital manipulation of images everything you see in a movie was assembled by hand . For things like titles and credits they would be shot in stop - motion , one frame at a time , changing the text with each frame . For some things , like a " scroll " of credits , the credit list would be put on a long roll of transparent plastic , which would be filmed while it was rolled past a bright white light . Then a negative image would be used to convert black text on a white background to white text on a black background . Think about everything you see on the screen in Star Wars Episode IV , and think that it was all assembled by hand , using layers and layers and layers of film . Digital makes so many things so much easier now .
As a fellow aerophobe I can only say that you should try finding solace in the improbability of a lethal plane crash . There are thousands of flights every day , tens of thousands of flight hours , hundreds of thousands of passengers are flown to and fro , yet plane crashes are getting rarer and rarer every year , despite the fact that the number of flights keeps increasing . Also , were you to actually experience some sort of an accident on board a plane , you should know that , according to a [ NTSB study ] ( URL_0 ) ( and here 's the official [ PDF of the study itself ] ( URL_1 ) ) of plane accidents , 95,7 % of people involved in them , from 1983 to 2000 , survived . And even if you only take the worst events , you still have a 76,6 % survival rate . Things have only gotten safer since then . Basically getting in an airplane accident of any sort is like winning a lottery . Dying in one is like winning two in a row .
Like you re five : Movies are something that artists can use to tell stories or express themselves . They are like paintings or music . When you paint a picture of your house and family you try to make everyone look like themselves so when other people look at your painting , they will recognize your house and family . Some painters make paintings that are nt of certain people or places but are of feelings , or ideas . Can you imagine what a painting of sadness might look like ? Or frustration ? Or thankfulness ? Well , some movies try to do the same thing . They do nt want to show a straightforward a story , instead they want show you a feeling . Like a swirl of oily paint and some sound effects to show you how amazingly big and empty the universe can feel . The Tree of Life is one of these movies and it specifically deals with the idea of the beginning of life and how the universe went from a lifeless soup to family of complex creatures who get mad and upset and feel love and loss . It is amazing and awe inspiring to think about . And since the movie is nt too specific in its storytelling , you are able to kinda put yourself into the movie and it makes the feelings stronger . The movie is nt about Brad Pitt 's family , really . The
I think that young children are a lot smarter than us , " educated " ( indoctrinated is more like it , at least in the US ) , classically and/or operantly conditioned ( from teachers , parents , TV , peers , pop culture , etc and so on ) " adults " . I think that , a good teacher and/or someone with a really good grasp of , say , Kant or any other philosophy , were to sit down with a 5 - year old and at least try to put Kant 's metaphysics into words and situations that a young , undeveloped mind could grasp , I think that we 'd be surprised at what they could be able to pick up and also , when we do challenge young children like that ( but not to the point of denying them the chance to be young & carefree and run and play and all that - which is also an important factor ) .
Neural coding (or Neural representation) is a neuroscience field concerned with characterising the hypothetical relationship between the stimulus and the individual or ensemble neuronal responses and the relationship among the electrical activity of the neurons in the ensemble. Based on the theory that sensory and other information is represented in the brain by networks of neurons, it is thought that neurons can encode both digital and analog information.
Socialization . From a young age they 're petted and fed by humans , so that kind of thing is seen as being normal and good . As others have said : Humans are seen as carers , and part of the pack . Try going up to a feral dog and petting it - you 'll end up with many stitches and lots of exciting little pills to prevent your arm falling off .
I do IT in a major hospital . I can answer this . The walls are super strong and/or thick . Having a fire would be a HUGE issue in a building full of oxygen tanks and disabled people . Due to the fire risk the buildings are kind of compartmentalized . In case of a fire , it should n't be able to spread very far . The downside to this is communications . Cell phones will suck . We give our doctors Voice Over IP ( VOIP ) cell phones that will use the hospital 's wifi . The wifi is also affected by the fireproof walls , so repeaters are really really really common . Sometimes we will have as many as one per patient room in some departments . TLDR : the threat of fire kills your cell phone .
With 1080p , the entire picture is sent every time . With 1080i , half the picture is sent ( every other line ) each time . So the first time it just sends odd lines , the next time just the even lines . The TV then combines the two together . 1080i uses half the amount of information , and produces half as smooth a video . 1080p is better because you get smoother video .
I 've searched tha seven seas fer an answer . Yer not alone in askin ' , and kind strangers have explained : 1 . [ ELI5 : Why is the 16:9 aspect ratio is more desired than the 4:3 aspect ratio on TV / Monitors ? ] ( URL_7 ) ^(_16 comments _ ) 1 . [ [ ELI5 ] How did 16x9 become the new standard aspect ratio ? ] ( URL_2 ) ^(_17 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why is defualt HD resolution 1920x1080 in 16:9 ? ] ( URL_3 ) ^(_7 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : why are tv shows shot in 16:9 , and not a cinematic aspect ratio like 1:85.1 , 2:39.1 etc ? ] ( URL_6 ) ^(_2 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : How come the " standard " monitor ratio ended up being 16:9 and not 16:10 ? ] ( URL_4 ) ^(_4 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why did we go through this huge change from 4:3 TVs to 16:9 TVs , only to have all the movies now come out in letter - boxed 2.40:1 ? ] ( URL_0 ) ^(_37 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why did we switched to wide(16:9 ) resolution , instead of just making the 4:3 resolutions " bigger " ? ] ( URL_1 ) ^(_14 comments _ ) 1 . [ ELI5 : Why we used to have 4:3
I 'm no expert here , but this is my understanding ; It never really existed . They were using stocks as collateral to purchase new stocks , so there was only any real monetary value in the original stock purchases ( made with real money ) , and everything after that original purchase was essentially credit . So , when the underlying stocks lost their value , it set off a chain reaction . That 's why the stock market crashed so hard .
Sometimes that does n't work though . Try this instead . Ctrl shift esc at the same time . Task manager . Select the program from applications , right click and choose go to process . Right click the service from the process tab and select end process tree . This will force any program to terminate as it kills any dependent process that keeps it alive . Source , I 'm a systems admin and mcse with 20 years of experience .
The statement "Finance is something all adults need to deal with but almost nobody learns in school." hurts me. However I have to disagree, as a finance student, I feel like everyone around me is sound in finance and competition in the finance market is so stiff that I have a hard time even finding a paid internship right now. I think its all about perspective from your circumstances, but back to the question. Personally, I feel that there is no one-size-fits-all financial planning rules. It is very subjective and is absolutely up to an individual regarding his financial goals. The number 1 rule I have of my own is - Do not ever spend what I do not have. Your reflected point is "Always pay off your credit card at the end of each month.", to which I ask, why not spend out of your savings? plan your grocery monies, necessary monthly expenditures, before spending on your "wants" should you have any leftovers. That way, you would not even have to pay credit every month because you don't owe any. Secondly, when you can get the above in check, then you start thinking about saving for the rainy days (i.e. Emergency fund). This is absolutely according to each individual's circumstance and could be regarded as say - 6 months * monthly income. Start saving a portion of your monthly income until you have set up a strong emergency fund you think you will require. After you have done than,
First you have to understand the components to a system . You have an air conditioner that has copper lines running from it to your air handler . Freon runs through those copper lines . The freon runs thru the compressor ( your outside air conditioning unit ) and it normally sends cool freon to be ran through your evaporator coil and the air handler blows air across the cool coils providing cool air . Same concept as you blowing into a cup of ice and feeling the cold air on your face . In a heat pump , the freon direction is reversed , and the lines are now hot inside , and blowing hot air through your home . Source HVAC guy
This may sound a little crazy but I would take $5K of that money and buy whiskey with it (Jack Daniel's would be my preference). My guess is that in 5 years that whiskey will be worth more than the $10K you put in the bank. I just can't see how the dollar survives the next 5 years without a major downward adjustment. If I'm wrong then you have a nice party and give whiskey for Christmas gifts. If I'm right at least you will have some savings instead of $15K of useless dollars. Here is my justification for converting your US dollars into tangible assets. Do you really think the money printing will ever stop?
If something in any transaction in life—financial or otherwise—doesn’t make you feel comfortable and the choice is between saving money with one thing versus another, don’t sell your personal needs short. Pay more elsewhere that treats you the way you expect to be treated. In the long run the $$$ you “save” in a cheaper transaction might cost you more in the headaches and annoyance you have to swallow in dealing with this “bargain” in the future. Your question is this: “Do his sales tactics indicate other underlying problems? How can I deal effectively with those tactics?” And you state this as well: “To make a long story short, the dealer's aggressive sales tactics have made me somewhat uncomfortable.” And finally ask: “How can I deal effectively with those tactics?” Okay, first and foremost if you feel discomfort in anything in life—not just a financial situation—just walk away. You might have to say “No…” when doing this but it’s not always the case you will have to counter aggression with aggression. And specifically in the case of a purchase like this, you need to also ask yourself: “Is this discount being offered me worth the headache I am getting?” At the end of the day money is meaningless and has it’s main worth as an economic motivator/stimulator: Someone has a need and someone else has something that can solve that need. What would it take for the side of need to connect to the side of solution to that need?
I can answer this very easily . Do me a favor : post all your text messages , emails and browser history into this thread . No ? Why ? You 've not been looking at anything illegal , right ? If you 've not broken the law , why do n't you want to share the contents of your phone ? That 's why people care .
Essentially * It is hard for youth in Italy to find legitimate jobs * they are forced to work without contracts , under the table , on jobs that are coined in this article as the ' on the black . ' * They ca n't use the ' on the black ' jobs for references , so they ca n't escape that industry * they ca n't get hired anywhere else either , because the article states that it is more expensive to actually hire a worker - companies have incentive in savings to illegally hire workers to go under the table
They are really quite different . HTML is the language that websites are written in . It describes what elements are in the page and how they 're organized ( elements such as text , images , buttons and links ) . However , HTML originally did n't include the ability to show graphics , animations or videos ( other than pre - rendered images and animated gifs ) . HTML did provide the ability to include embedded objects , which would require the user to install a plugin that could display them . One such common plugin was Flash , which was basically another small program that runs inside your browser ( another such plugin is Java which can display Java Applets , but they 're hardly in use anymore ) . So developers could use Flash to create things like games ( such as the ones you 'll find in URL_0 ) and video players ( such as YouTube ) . HTML5 introduces new features to HTML , mainly the support for the < canvas > and < video > elements . These tags could be used to display graphics and videos without the need for an external plugin , and were handled by the browser and not by the plugin . HTML5 introduces many other new features , but these are the ones that are most relevant to this discussion ( HTML5 vs Flash ) . The main advantage of HTML5 is that it 's a standard
An OS with a monolithic kernel has everything piled into a single " program " . Technically , your network stack could muck about with the data belonging to the disk access routines ( but they * should n't * ) . A microkernel OS enforces the idea that unrelated parts should n't be able to muck about with each other 's data & resources by making each part a separate " program " and requiring them to communicate through a small , message - passing core ( the microkernel ) so that this is the * only * way separate components can interact . All major commercial operating systems these days are monolithic . While , technically , OSX is build on top of a microkernel , it 's only running a single " service " that handles everything .
You can tickle yourself ! You can tickle the roof of your mouth with your tounge ! The reason you can not tickle your arms , legs , etc .. Is because you know where you are touching yourself . You only feel a tickle from someone else , because your brain thinks it is a creepy crawly ! Which could be poisonous !
The three way handshake is 3 messages ( as you might have guessed ) . The first is the SYN packet , from the client . This initiates the contact , and sets up some stuff . It indicates what the starting number for the counter used to size messages and keep them in order ( the syn / ack number ) . It lists all the TCP options the client supports , too . Then the server responds with a SYN / ACK packet . This does all the stuff that the SYN does , but with information about the server this time . The ACK part of it is just saying " yeah , I got your SYN " . Then , the client sends an ACK to say " I got your SYN / ACK " , and now that everyone kbows all the information about each other , the client can start sending messages with other data .
It 's an " exothermic " chemical reaction . So ... the materials inside the warmers are smoothed together initiating the chemical reaction , which then releases heat . This is the same process that causes a bomb to explode , more or less , just the pace of energy release is really , really , really fast in a bomb and very slow in the hand warmers ( allowing you be both warm , and to keep your hands ) . They come in different forms , but the ones I 've seen most often air activated ( you still jiggle these about , but you do n't have to break a little bad inside the outerpouch to release a material which I 'm sure is another method out there ) . The air sort are iron oxide , salt , vermiculite , water ... it rapidly oxidizes the iron which is an exothermic process .
When I was 5 , I asked my mom this question . She told me to ask my dad . My dad said , " It 's because if it was n't blue , I 'd beat it 's ass . " So there you have it . The sky is blue out of fear of getting it 's ass kicked by my dad .
This is n't just a trick of perception — it 's a real phenomenon . Take a simple model . Suppose that there are two lanes , and divide each lane into segments one mile long . Your commute is ten miles . Now suppose that each segment is either " fast " ( 60 mph ) or " slow " ( 30 mph ) . For each segment , flip a coin to determine its speed . Then , imagine driving in one lane or the other . No matter which lane you pick , you should expect to spend more time driving more slowly than the other lane than more quickly ! Why ? Because when you 're in a slow segment , it takes twice as long to get to the next segment as when you 're in a fast segment . Note that you should expect to drive the same * distance * in a slower lane as in a faster lane . Real highways get more complicated , because speed in a lane segment is n't quite so uniformly random , and because drivers can change lanes . EDIT : It 's kind of like the reason that the average Facebook user has fewer friends than their average friend .
Without going into specifics about both systems , the main issues are two - fold in my opinion . * The security they 're implementing on these consoles is ridiculous , especially on the xbox . There are a lot of requirements to play games , and a lot of can - and - can't do 's that gamers have been able to do since gamings inception ( like lending game discs to a friend so they can play single player ) . * the lack of focus on GAMING . These are supposed to be game consoles , but more and more the systems are turning into " media consoles that can also play games " . There 's no focus on high end graphics , support for great games and new hardware to innovate . They 're basically just computers which excel at social media integration in gaming . Things like hitting a button to post your high score to your FB status . While a neat feature ( if you 're into bragging on facebook ) , it does nothing to support GAMING . It 's being done to try and attract a broader market , but to gamers who have been playing games for years , it just waters down the experience .
Kouhoutek 's example definitely " Tkaes teh ckae " To add my two cents , you can think of radation particles / rays as little toddlers that want to grab anything and everything . Think of your DNA as a lovely card pyramid , stacked in a particular order . That toddler takes the opportunity to grab a card , and your beautiful pyramid falls down . You can rebuild that pyramid , but it might not be back in the correct order that it was in before hand . Now use that pyramid configuration as a blueprint to replicate your first pyramid ( that the toddler destroyed ) . To sum it up in a sentence , it rearranges your DNA up on a molecular level .
Super rough estimate here . XKCD 's what - if has already done this with the world 's ships taken out of the ocean [ here ] ( URL_0 ) . For 2.15 billion metric tons fully loaded as his estimate of the world 's fleet he got a drop in the ocean of 6 microns . A high end estimate the world 's oceanic biomass is 10 billion metric tons , and assuming the 2.15 billion tons he estimated was displacement , not raw tonnage , you can probably use the same numbers safely and just multiply by 4.65 if you assume that , on average , oceanic biomass is as dense as the water it lives in .
Hi, Welcome to Health care magic forum. It is confirmed the the brain zaps are due to the selexa, you have stopped it now. welbutrin alone may be sufficient, if your doctor feels it is not sufficient , he can prescribe some other medicine from the thousands of other drugs. Take more of green leafy vegetables, pulses, sprouts, and protein rich foods to have good health resistance against the infections. Practice yoga, meditation, reading books, and hearing music as diversion procedures. Wishing for a quick and complete recovery. thank you.
I 'm an American who is very close with a Brazilian so I can clear this up . We in the U.S. use the word " America " to refer to our country . People in Central and South America do n't do this . Our country is * always * the " United States " to them ( But in Spanish or Portuguese , of course ) . To them , the word " America " denotes all of what we would call North America and South America . To them , North America and South America are sub - continents . Because of this actually , many Central and South Americans are offended by our use of the word " American . " We use the word " American " for ourselves because it seems natural when we live in the " United States of America . " The rest of the English speaking world just went with us on this . But not the Central and South American countries . In Brazilian Portuguese , the word they use to denote a person from the U.S. is * estadunidense , * which you may notice basically looks like " UnitedStatesian . " When the Americas were first discovered by Europeans , the word America only referred two North and South America . Well , Central and South American countries have never gotten past that . And they do n't want to , because that would mean accepting the
For what it 's worth , my wife and I went to a hypnotism show and she volunteered . I always figured it was a ' play along ' thing , but she ca n't even keep a straight face when farting . She was doing everything he asked and reacted how he wanted her to . She said she does n't remember most of the stuff , and has very fuzzy memories of other things she did . Things like " stand up and take a bow ! " or " You smell the worst smell in the world , how do you react . " I know for a fact that if she was just playing along she would have A ) not kept a straight face and/or B ) told me afterwards . The hypnotist gathered about 15 people on stage , and if someone started laughing or just would n't ' go under ' he would quietly ask them to go off stage while keeping everyone who were ' under ' on stage . We went with a large ( 50ish people ) group , and I knew several people up on stage , and not one of them really remembers what they did up there .
Film has not always been widescreen . When film first started it was 4:3 ( 1:33:1 ) aspect ratio , similar to early televisions which used the " academy " ratio ( 1:375:1 ) which was the standard for film with a soundtrack . It was only after the film " Shane " in 1953 did studios start making films in " widescreen " . Television did n't start out on the wrong foot , it has been following the movie business .
It is a rather complex system, but here is a rough summary. Interbank tranfers ultimately require a transfer of reserves at the central bank. As a concrete example, the bank of england system is the rtgs. Only the clearing banks and similar (e.g. bacs) have access to rtgs. You can send a chaps payment fairly quickly, but that costs. Chaps immediately triggers an rtgs transfer once the sending bank agrees and so you can be certain that the money is being paid. Hence its use for large amounts. Bacs also sits on the rtgs but to keep costs down it batches tranfers up. Because we are talking about bank reserve movements, checks have to be in place and that can take time. Furthermore the potential for fraud is higher than chaps since these are aggregrated transactions a layer removed, so a delay reduces the chance of payment failing after apparently being sent. Faster payments is a new product by bacs that speeds up the bacs process by doing a number of transfers per day. Hence the two hour clearing. For safety it can only be used for up to 10k. Second tier banks will hold accounts with clearing banks so they are another step down. Foreign currency transfers require the foreign Central Bank reserve somewhere, and so must be mediated by at least one clearing bank in that country. Different countries are at different stages in their technology. Uk clearing is 2h standard now but US is a little behind
Apologies for the poor answer , but though he was a good man who cared for the environment and for his people , he came into a difficult time with stagflation and because he could n't restore the economy he was often blamed . There was also the Iran hostage crisis where his inability to effectively deal with the situation decreased his popularity . Even those who do n't know Jimmy Carter 's policies are n't really attracted to him because he appeared rather indecisive and passive compared to other presidents . Overall he was a very great man and president , he was just unfortunate with timing and with the public .
We have realized from our experience that rent to own is a scam. They want your money either way. We are at the buying part, and finding it difficult to find a lender to give us full money the seller is asking us for the the house. The house we have isn't valued at the same it was two years ago and now we are going to lose the house because we don't have the other $40 thousand they lied about at purchase price. We will not do this again but coming from bankruptcies in the past is hard as well.
A lot of different things happened , but to be blunt , Conan O'Brien did not attract as many viewers as expected . Leno eventually had his own earlier program which could be viewed as a contributing factor in O'Brien 's lack of success . However , even while Leno was still off the air , O'Brien 's new episodes were n't able to beat David Letterman 's reruns . Based on the available information , it appears to simply be that O'Brien was removed because he was unable to attract as many viewers to the Tonight Show as Jay Leno .
In addition to the stuff being said , the EU has a pretty bad image , because if there is a EU directive that s good the national politicians will be like " we did that for you " ( because after the directive is issued it has to be made into national law ) , and if there is one that is unpopular they will be like " that evil EU is forcing us " though it might well be that the law ( eg . Surveillance ) is _ much _ harsher than what would be required by the directive . Also there is a perceived immigration problem and Islamophoby caused by perceived terrorist threat ( I call bullshit on that btw ) which plays right into the arms of those groups .
I called the IRS (click here for IRS contact info) and they said I do not need to get a new EIN. I could have just filed the appropriate employer federal tax return (940/941) and then the filing requirements would have been updated. But while I was on the phone, they just updated the filing requirements for my LLC so I am all good now (I still need to file the correct form and make the correct payments, etc. but I can use this same EIN going forward). Disclaimer: Don't trust me (or this answer) for tax advice (your situation may be different). The IRS person on the phone was very helpful so I recommend calling them if you are in a similar situation. FYI, I have found calling the IRS to always be very helpful.
I know someone with years of work at a crisis management center . what i thought was really interesting is she told me when someone calls in and they immediately say they are going to kill themselves , it 's a cry for help thing and they do n't really worry too much . But if the person talks about everything but suicide , THAT is a huge red flag . like if they start listing all their problems and mistakes . That is when you need to be the most worried because this person has already decided they are going to die , they just want to explain themselves to another person first .
You 're not really floating . In the split second that your muscles flex and send all that energy through your feet ( toes ) , you have just enough energy to break the pull of gravity . But even if you had 5x the leg strength , you would n't necessarily jump 5x higher , since gravity is constantly working against you . It 's the reason rockets have continuous thrust to reach orbit . You have to continuously fight off the force of gravity .
Imagine you 're a slab of butter on top of a plate of hot pancakes , just melting into them . Everything is ok , the things that pissed you off are easier to shrug off , you feel great , everything looks more beautiful and everything tastes and smells better . Life does n't seem quite as hard anymore and everything that you stressed about does n't seem so bad anymore and completely surmountable .
Statistics . The study shows that the chance of the three heat waves he considers happening would have been 1 in 300 between 1950 and 1980 , but in modern conditions the chance seems more like 1 in 10 . Thus , it 's very unlikely that modern conditions are actually the same as those between 1950 and 1980 ; the difference in chances shows that there has very likely been some change in the climate .
That 's the problem of consciousness : we just do n't know . There are some who think that consciousness is a purely physical phenomenon : get enough neurons in one place arranged correctly and poof ! conscious person . Some believe that it 's not physical , or that we do n't know the physical properties that make it up yet . Of course , it 's also possible that you 're the only conscious individual in existence , and everyone else is just a construct of your mind . In that case , consciousness is a property of the universe , and you are the universe .
You need to drill a hole . It 's the only way to be safe . see [ this chart ] ( URL_0 ) to know how much ice is safe to travel on . I go ice fishing a lot and i wo n't step out unless there is at least 5 inches . I went fishing yesterday and there was 26 inches of ice .
I paid roughly $ 2200 per class when I attended University of Phoenix . I ended up with 10k in loans before my first year was over . I recently transferred to a local college , and the cost is greatly reduced . Basically , they make you believe you can get a great education from home by paying a little more . You actually pay for the " convenience " of studying alone and never having access to teachers when you need them . I even paid a " book fee " for every class , a $ 70 charge to receive a PDF copy of the class materials . Truth is , most of the classes offered by UoP and similar colleges are fluff classes that do not transfer to a university , let alone to a community college . I 'll be lucky if I retain 5 - 6 credits of the 24 that I completed at UoP. Luckily math classes are pretty much universally the same , so my time was n't completely wasted .
From memory , and in eli5 terms : They were running a test , which set up conditions that rapidly heated the reactor . The folks in the control room were unclear on what was happening , reacted the wrong way , and caused a huge release of heat . Because of the design of the reactor , there was room between the top of the reactor and the top of the heated water . This meant that when the heat spiked , the water close to the fuel boiled instantly , threw the rest of the water upward like a giant , multi - ton hammer , smashed the reactor to bits , exposed the fuel rods to air and caught the graphite that was supposed to help protect things on fire instead . The roof of the entire building blew off and bits of it also caught fire , and everything , including a lot of the fuel , was able to burn into the atmosphere . The Soviet government refused to say anything was wrong until multiple days later , when radioactive particles were detected falling in Sweden . Many Russian workers and soldiers died ( or received lethal radiation doses then died later ) trying to put out fires and cool down the remaining reactor fuel . Eventually this included tactics like dropping bags of sand onto the hole in the building from helicopters . The whole city around Chernobyl had to be evacuated and remains
Electrocution is death caused by electrical current flowing through the body . Electrical current is the movement of charge . So , we need to understand how the movement of charge through the body can kill a human . First , the human body has electrical resistance to the flow of current moving through it . When current flows through a resistor , heat is generated ( this is how heat is generated in an electric stove , or a hairdryer ) . A large enough current flowing through the body will cause substantial burns to the tissue through which the current flows . This in and of itself can kill a person , either directly , when large thermal damage is done to a major organ , like the heart or the brain , or indirectly , when the electrocuted person suffers thermal damage over a large enough portion of their body , resulting in infection and/or an electrolyte imbalance . Second , both muscles and nerves maintain a electrochemical gradient across their cell membranes . This electrochemical gradient is required for nerves to " fire " ( i.e. carry information along a nerve ) and for muscles to contract . Death can occur when current flows through / near the heart muscle , disrupting the electrochemical gradient required for normal heart function . The current then causes a heart attack(cessation of the heartbeat , or an irregular heart beat that impairs the ability of the heart to normally
There are a number of reasons ; * General distaste for what is considered manufactured food rather then natural food . Personally I consider GMO 's as natural as " natural " crops , we have been genetically engineering food for centuries by simply cross breeding different subspecies . If you have ever eaten orange carrots then you have eaten genetically modified food , orange carrots did n't exist before C17 when they were engineered . * Lack of understanding regarding choosing strong sources . There has never been a peer reviewed study published substantiating claims regarding the health impacts of GMO 's yet naturalnews is regarded as strong a source as scientific journals . Often environmentalists favorite fallacy the [ precautionary principle ] ( URL_0 ) is used here , they claim that because we do n't know its not harmful for humans we should assume it is and as such restrict it . * Misinformation regarding IP enforcement . Someone tells someone else about something they remember reading and the false information becomes fact . A few years ago there was some nonsense going around about Monsanto suing farmers when seed blew on to their land and grew , the real story was two separate cases ; one where a farmer recycled seed to use for a second season ( against the agreement farmers sign to access seed ) and another where a farmer cultivated seed he picked up from a neighboring farm . One can certainly disagree
If you were looking to maximize your ability to save in a qualified plan, why not setup a 401K plan in Company A and keep the SEP in B? Setup the 401K in A such that any employee can contribute 100% of their salary. Then take a salary for around 19K/year (assuming under age 50), so you can contribute and have enough to cover SS taxes. Then continue to move dividends to Company A, and continue the SEP in B. This way if you are below age 50, you can contribute 54K (SEP limit) + 18K (IRA limit) + 5500 (ROTH income dependent) to a qualified plan.
I mean , military development since the sling has been trying to figure out how to fire projectiles a different way . If it 's a better way , that 's important , whether you 're talking cannons , catapults , or railguns . Railguns are capable of higher velocities , which means that the same projectile would do more damage or travel further . Long - term , there 's reason to think that they 'll be cheaper , and more convenient , since you would n't need to use explosives , which can exp .... y'know . Go off .
Some research show that people of diffrent ages does things diffrently . For eg . in tests younger people will do something quickly , but more sloppy . While older people will take their time but will have a higher percentage of correct answers . Haste makes waste could be a suitable proverb here . [ When it comes to braintasks older is not slower ] ( URL_0 ) .
It 's because you 're passive ; you 're not engaging anything . Meetings , even of an interesting topic , are not often professionally designed to aggressively keep your attention like a TV show . It 's just Bob , rambling on about TPS reports . You 're probably sleep deprived , fatigued , and caffeinated at work ; stimulated and and engaging a subject is probably the thing that keeps you awake and alert normally . If you sat in your cube doing nothing for 10 minutes , I 'd wager you 'd pass out .
Everyone gives the movie either a " fresh " rating or a " rotten " rating . Then ratio of rotten to fresh is calculated as a percentage ; if 45 people give a movie a " fresh " rating and 5 people give it " rotten " , the movie will get a 90 % score ( an overall " fresh " rating ) .
Not quite for a five year old , but this video made me finally understand imaginary numbers , and how the mandelbrot set is made : Chapter 5 and 6 of [ Dimensions ] ( URL_0 ) ( You have to click play on the player , then hover over it to get the chapter controls . Either click on the right arrow , or click the little list thing and skip the chapter 5 . Although the entire thing is fascinating . I definitely recommend it for anyone who has n't seen it )
A biological system is a complex network which connects several biologically relevant entities. Biological organization spans several scales and are determined based different structures depending on what the system is. Examples of biological systems at the macro scale are populations of organisms. On the organ and tissue scale in mammals and other animals, examples include the circulatory system, the respiratory system, and the nervous system. On the micro to the nanoscopic scale, examples of biological systems are cells, organelles, macromolecular complexes and regulatory pathways. A biological system is not to be confused with a living system, such as a living organism.
When you rub your eyes it reduces the pulse rate around the rectus muscles that move the eyeball . This causes a response in the vagus nerve . Producing a vagal response in this manner is used in massages , and martial arts type stuff . Basically it 's like a pressure point massage , on very sensitive nerves .
the alternative to bankruptcy is debtor 's prison . we ( meaning the laws our society makes ) have chosen to use bankruptcy instead because it produces better outcomes . consider the following : if a person in debt is thrown in prison they can not ever pay back any of the debt they owe and will spend years in jail coming out even poorer and worse off than when they went in since they wo n't be able to work or earn money in prison . if they go to bankruptcy court instead a judge can come up with a plan to sell some assets to pay back some of the money they owe , but most importantly to leave the person free and able to work so they can continue earning money . often the judge will determine that a portion of those earnings should , for a few years at least , continue to go towards paying back debts . this is much better for everyone involved .
From a historical standpoint , I believe that Final Fantasy was a last ditch effort by SquareSoft ( now Square Enix ) to produce a game because the company was going bankrupt . The franchise was enough to take a few steps forward early on , but really did n't explode until about FFVI , as others have said . It 's famous for a lot of 90 's gamers because SquareSoft did a really good job at getting the gamers to become emotionally invested in the characters and story . Sure , the stories are complicated and in a big world , but that 's why there 's a lot of appeal and a lot to experience .
When I was about 15 or 16 I was climbing a fence and just got a brand new Spyderco blade that had an assisted opening clasp . When I jumped the fence my knife opened in an L shape and went directly into my right thigh about 2 inches deep . The pain was n't immediate it took a minute and felt like when your leg falls asleep , numb and cold . It hurt more when I got to the ground and tried to move . The way it feels coming out hurts much much more than going inside in my opinion , I did it slowly and pulled with the sharp side up , to not open the wound any more than it had been . The worst pain happened about 10 - 15 minutes later . It 's like if you were to take a piece of ice and hold it on your skin for about 5 minutes then poke it incredibly hard . That s my most accurate account on how it hurts , proven . Edit : I forgot to specify poke yourself with a dull pencil with tons of pressure . That 'll do the trick .
Like has been stated , moving air will draw heat from your body faster . To add to that , moving air will make your sweat cool you more efficiently as well . During evaporation , the process of water changing it 's state from a liquid to a gas uses heat to occur . Think of it kind - of like heat being an ingredient of evaporation , so to speak . This heat has to come from somewhere , so it is taken from the surface of your body . This is why sweat works in dry climates , but does n't really work in humid climates . Because the air is already saturated with water , the sweat just sits on your body and does n't evaporate . Air moving over the sweat on your body makes it evaporate more quickly .
This is gon na be an overly detailed answer because I 'm a lawyer at a big NYC law firm and currently want any excuse not to do my work . First , it 's important to note that in the United States law firms are a special type of business known as a partnership . This is in contrast to the business type known as a corporation . There are lots of technical and legal distinctions between the two involving how they are owned the liabilities that people who own them accrue but that 's not particularly important to the answer . Corporations are owned by shareholders and run by an executive . Technically speaking , none of those people are liable for the corporations debts only the corporation itself is . Partnerships are owned and usually run by , the same people . Furthermore , the partners are on the hook for the obligations of any of the other partners . There are lots of arguments for and against why people think this is the better way to organize lawyers but I 'll save that rant for another post . In short , an equity partner just means a regular partner . They are the people who own a portion of the firm . Technically an equity partner is an equal partner to any other equity partner in a firm and all decisions about the firm ( i.e. the partnership ) has to go through the partners .
[ American Exceptionalism ] ( URL_0 ) can often be used to indicate that the United States is either better at doing something than most / all other nations or is unique . While there are probably something that the United States does actually do that are exceptional , many people who try to cite examples use concepts that are neither unique to the United States nor an example of something for which they are the best . [ This clip from Newsroom ] ( URL_1 ) points out some problems with declaring America the greatest nation .
Giraffes are surprisingly dangerous . A good strong kick to the skull can easily kill you . As well , those [ knobby little horns ] ( URL_0 ) are n't just for show . They can whip their heads around pretty fast , and you can imagine how strong their neck muscles are . A good bash by those horns is going to mess you up . Mind , horse kicks can kill , too . Which brings us to point number 2 : horses are n't nearly as skittish as giraffes . * Part * of that has to do with the fact that we 've domesticated horses over thousands of years , so they 're more or less used to humans . But horses were domesticat*able * in the first place because they were easier to approach . It 's the same reason we do n't ride zebras around even though they 're even closer to horses than giraffes . They 're just not calm enough . So a horse * might * decide to kick you and try to kill you , if you piss it off enough . A giraffe will be quite likely to try to kill you just for being to close . Trying to ride it is pretty damn close .
External and terminal ballistics are a pretty established science , it 's tough to beat them . First , momentum is important too , and small fast bullets with the same energy have significantly less momentum . Also , small , fast bullets are harder on gun barrels than slower , heavier bullets , so barrel life can be a factor on the decision . Within a single caliber , smaller , faster bullets ( which has to mean means shorter since the circle is by definition the same ) lose more of their energy in flight than longer ( heavier , slower bullets ) . In many defensive scenarios to much energy and too much momentum ( and over penetration ) is just as important a consideration as too little energy ( and under penetration ) . There 's an important balance point required . There are products out there that tend toward smaller faster bullets ( the 5.7x28 in pistols is a famous , divisive example ) , or the popular .223/5.56x45 is a popular small , fast bullet in rifles ( and there are * * lots * * of wildcat rifle rounds that push toward that end of energy curves ) .
Are these calculations correct? These are approximate calculations and are with the assumption that entire corpus will be taxed. The assumption was valid as the wording in the budget speech was not very clear. Subsequently the finance ministry has clarified that only interest generated will be taxed and not the contribution. There are no new calculations done with this assumption. Edit: As per communication from finance ministry this proposal is on hold.
Zeros in denominators are undefined . The smaller you make the absolute value of a denominator less than 1 , the * greater * the result . So if you approach zero in a denominator , the result approaches infinity . But infinity is not a number , and multiplying the result by the denominator does not reproduce the numerator as is required by the logic of division / multiplication .
The long and short of it is that China is not communist , and there has never been a communist nation in the history of the world . Many nations have * claimed * to be communist , sure , but the inequality gap has always existed and sometimes even been wider win these countries . One of the fundamental aspects of communism is eliminating different social classes ; this has never been achieved on a nation - wide scale .
When you are placing an order with an online broker you should already know what exchange or exchanges that stock trades on. For example if you look up under Yahoo Finance: Notice how News Corp is traded both on the ASX and the Nasdaq. The difference is the shares traded on the ASX have the extension .AX, that is how you know the difference between them. When you are putting orders in with your online broker you will need to select the exchange you wish your order to go to (if your broker allows trading on multiple exchanges). So you should always know which exchange your order goes to.
I m gon na go with : diversity of populations depending on location . In some social groups , education is n't valued as much as social status within a group so it is n't seen as important ( see : ghetto / gang culture ) or education systems are seen as products of the " liberal enemy " and beliefs are so ingrained into a child 's life by a parent that they never take their education seriously because that kid wants to work in the coal mine / paper mill / etc just like daddy and everyone else in the family because they should be ferociously proud of what they do because they do it and it makes them a living without having to read or write , and to hell with doing things differently or thinking outside the box ( see also : West Virginia , Alabama , or Mississippi ) . Even with poor education systems , if you make up your mind to apply yourself and work hard you can find the resources to succeed as much as possible , with the very minimum of gaining literacy , but you have to want to do it and many cultures in the US perpetuate following their own agenda of opposing education because it 's a social norm . I 've seen plenty of foreign people teach themselves how to read and write with the same resources the rest of us have and often they are coming
From URL_0 : Main Entry : meta Part of Speech : adj Definition : self - referential ; referring to itself or its characteristics , esp . as a parody ; about Example : That book is so meta . Etymology : meta ' beyond ' Main Entry : meta Part of Speech : n Definition : something with refers to itself , esp . in self - parodying manner Example : A movie - within - a - movie is an example of meta . Etymology : meta ' beyond '
There are some good points in this thread , but I do n't think any of them actually explain the basic underlying principle here . 1 . Each person in the United States has certain civil rights including the right to freedom of speech and the right to enter into business contracts . These rights are guaranteed in the Constitution . 2 . Just because a group of 5 people , or a hundred people , or a million people band together does n't mean they lose access to those basic rights . If each individual member of a group has the right to freedom of speech , the group as a whole has the right to freedom of speech too . These rights was first affirmed in 1819 in the Supreme Court case , Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward , and has been consistently upheld throughout US history . 3 . Freedom of speech means that individuals have the right to speak their mind . They have the right to express themselves in a newspaper . They have the right to start a newspaper and express their opinion in it . They have the right to pay other newspapers to print their opinions . They have the right to express support for political leaders . They have the right to express disdain for political leaders . They have the right to make a film critical of political leaders , and to pay TV stations to air them .
Medical image computing (MIC) is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of computer science, information engineering, electrical engineering, physics, mathematics and medicine. This field develops computational and mathematical methods for solving problems pertaining to medical images and their use for biomedical research and clinical care. The main goal of MIC is to extract clinically relevant information or knowledge from medical images. While closely related to the field of medical imaging, MIC focuses on the computational analysis of the images, not their acquisition. The methods can be grouped into several broad categories: image segmentation, image registration, image-based physiological modeling, and others.
If the lighting is done correctly and good keying software is used , rotoscoping is n't necessary for hair . 5 extra minutes in production ensuring that lighting is correct can save hours upon hours in post ! Poorly lit greenscreens ( ie the op 's photo ) are my pet peeve . Although , I suppose rotoscopers do n't mind so much .
Pseudorandom often refers to a mathematical formula to produce a stream of numbers that appear to be random . But the formula itself is predictable . If you know the last random number to be generated ( and sometimes you might also need some internal secret data stored with the formula ) , you could actually predict the next number . Here 's a super dumb example . Suppose the formula is : next number = ( last number + 7 ) MOD 10 ( MOD means divide the left side by the right , and return the remainder . ) Starting with 0 , this awful pseudorandom number generator will produce the following stream of numbers : 0 , 7 , 4 , 1 , 8 , 5 , 2 , 9 , 6 , 3 , 0 And then the sequence will repeat again and again . From the outside , the results might look as if somebody just took a 10 - sided die marked 0 - 9 and kept rolling it . But this random number generator is so simple that its sequence is only 10 numbers long and repeats quickly . After watching just 20 numbers go by anybody could figure out what the next one will be . Yet this generator satisfies certain desirable qualities in a random number generator . It produces an even distribution across all the possible results ( just as many 0 's come out as 9 's , or
I 've got a beginning tinnitus problem and I 've been told it 's the hairs just like Zantary wrote that tells the nerve system that we hear sounds . When the hair vibrates because of movements in the air , this is the sound we hear . Then it travels through the nerve system to the brain , and we hear . But too loud or high pitched sounds can damage the actual nerve ( or the hairs ) and make it believe it hears the air movements that we know is sound , and it sends the signals to the brain and I hear this . I think you actually mean tinnitus though . PS when I hear that sound I ca n't help myself to think of a small old fashioned radio volume wheel , like on the boomboxes . And then I turn the volume down and it actually helps lol
Basically , a Master - DVD is etched , which is an exact opposite ( with the holes as points ) of what the DVD should become . Then , the DVD 's are ' pressed ' by use of this master - disc . I just know this because a friend of mine who worked at a dvd - printing - lab , has a huge collection of non - usable porno - discs ... Please do correct me if I 'm wrong in any part .
URL_0 excerpt of article here , if you 're interested you can probably follow the lead provided : ... Richard Vedder , an economist at Ohio University " who 's studied college tuition so long , so thoroughly , and so honestly that colleges administrators ca n't stand him . " Vedder tells him that from 1900 to 1975 average college tuition increased 2 to 3 percent per year , after inflation . Then , " like a dirigible unloosed from its mooring , " the average tuition hike " angled sharply skyward . " Increases are now typically 5 to 6 percent per year after inflation . In 2003 average tuition rose 14 percent . Why is this happening ? " You want my short answer ? " Vedder says . " This is my simple , one - sentence answer to why colleges keep raising their tuition : Because they can ! " At this Vedder lets out a high - pitched laugh . " I mean , who 's going to stop them ? Parents ? The government ? There 's nothing stopping them — literally nothing . " Vedder 's longer answer is that the schools ' governance systems are so decentralized that the schools ' presidents can manage things only by buying each powerful constituency off — the alumni with a good football team , the faculty with good salaries and a light course load , the students with excellent food and swank facilities .
A few possible reasons * Out of all the developed countries , the US has the worst quality of care for their mentally ill citizens . Most serial killers are mentally and untreated . * Out of all the developed countries , we have the easiest access to firearms . This makes it easier to kill people * Areas of conflict , like Somalia or Syria , would not have statistics on serial killers because it is difficult to differentiate between a serial killer and a soldier / fighter .
Metaphysics deals with all those things that are fundamentally unknowable and untestable . It goes beyond physics , where physics is the study of the universe to the extent that it can be known and modelled . Broadly , metaphysics aims to be the most general investigation possible into the nature of reality . Some examples of metaphysical questions are : Why is there something rather than nothing ? What are numbers ? Can there be time without change ? , and Can there be aspects of reality that are in principal unknowable ?
Typically one wants to see a credit score, just because you may have money in the bank and decent income does not mean your going to pay, there are plenty of people who have the money but simply refuse to cough it up. Credit is simply a relative way of seeing where one fits against another in a larger group, it shows that this person not only can pay, but does pay. While not having a credit history should make no difference, I can and hopefully easily posited above why it can be necessary to have one. Not all landlords will require a credit check, I was not required to give one, I did not have much credit to begin with, given that, I was forced to cough up a higher degree of a security deposit.
Fish is n't considered meat because English and Latin are slightly different languages . For hundreds of years Catholics were not allowed to eat meat on Friday . But the language of the church is Latin , and what Catholics were not allowed to eat is ' carne ' which is the flesh of creatures from the land or the sky . So fish was fine .
Mostly because he is such an unattractive guy . He was nicknamed " The Hedgehog " for a reason . The thing is that he would be the average guy . If a guy like him could get sex from the hot co - star , there is hope for every guy to bang a porn star hottie . The other thing he had going for him was he could cum on command , rarely needing a second take for a money shot . Getting a guy to cum at just the right time saves the filmmakers a lot of money by saving time waiting for the talent to get hard again and waiting for him to be ready again . I listened to a radio interview he did a few years ago and he explained why he was so popular and so often cast .
When used appropriately , martial law means a certain portion of the country is under military control , but the country at large remains under civilian control . Those civilian authorities decide when it should end . As for value , it allows military resources to be better used it emergency situations , typically a war . If Canada invaded the US and had seized International Falls , a good part of northern Minnesota would likely fall under martial law . The US also declared martial law after the San Francisco fire of 1906 , so soldiers could blow up buildings to make firebreaks . However , it is more often used abusively . For most of World War II , Hawaii was under martial law , mostly to suspend the rights of Japanese - Americans living there . One multiple occasionas , state governors used martial law as a pretense to break strikes , and the last time it was used , 1961 , the Alabama Governor used it as a pretext to harass civil rights protestors .
Your blood does not boil - your body exerts enough pressure on your blood vessels to keep it in liquid phase . Liquids located on the surface - such as tears on your eyes and saliva on your tongue - _ does _ boil . Boiling simply means that the vapour pressure of the liquid is at or exceeds the ambient pressure . Usually one achieves this by increasing the temperature of the liquid , but it can be done by decreasing the ambient pressure as well . In the case of being in outer space , since the outside pressure is so low , the liquid boils at body temperature .
Let me count the ways ... Gold is pretty shiny and it shines the colour of the sun . Yellow . There 's lots of old religions that worship the sun or sun gods and generally the sun gets a lot of respect for making plants grow . It 's a very malleable metal , which makes it great for jewelry . It 's rare and therefore expensive . It 's expensive , so it becomes a symbol of wealth or a symbol of no expense being spared . It 's inert , so it sticks around for ages . It 's now vital to the electronics industry , so there will always be demand . It 's value does n't fluctuate anywhere near as much as money , so it makes a good commodity to buy when money looks weak .
I was an early adopter of Paypal . It pretty much grew side by side with ebay , back when ebay used to close on Fridays for maintenance ( No , I am not joking ) . If you bought anything off ebay , the only way to pay was money order , western union , cheque , or maybe give them your credit card . Most banks did nt have internet banking , so to do a bank transfer required standing in line while the bank was actually open . So that was not even an option . There just like today there was also a lot of scammers . Cheques bounced constantly , there is no way you could have given anybody your credit card and think it was safe . Paypal came in just at the time that ebay was booming , and it 's customers needed a way to transfer money safely and easily . At the beginning , they had zero to low fees , and guaranteed your money safe . There were other competitors as well in the early days . Paymate , paysafe , Western Union also went digital quite early too ( and was an ebay preferred payment method ) . But Paypal become the easy winner through numbers . When ebay bought paypal and integrated them into their system , that 's when they became pretty much universal .
People seem to be answering the " do they commit more crimes " bit and skipping the " or is it the system " bit . It can be both . Prejudice in the court system / juries / judges and the general under - resourcing of social services in inner - city areas means that , for a given crime , a black person is more likely to be imprisoned than paroled , given house arrest or other non - custodial options .
A combination of reasons , some of which have been covered . Part of the human drive for symmetry is that it 's easier to look at / more comfortable , because it requires less brain power to process . Something akin to what ConeCrewCarl said there . However , lazy has negative connotations that are n't really appropriate . The brain uses resources to operated , and evolved with desired efficiencies at heart that are no longer particularly relevant - conservation due to scarcity of resources . But I digress ... Another portion of what drives it is human sexuality . Human sexuality in turn guides much of what we find beauty in . This explanation would require a great deal of time to explain fully , but suffice it to say that through history we 've endowed many sources of art and beauty human characteristc analogues . Symmetry plays a significant role in this , because it is a simply observed sign of overal health . The better the physical health of a person , the more symmetrical they are in general . Since that health is a desirable trait for procreation and evolution of the species , it is something our brains interpret as beautiful . Thus , as with other things that are translated from the sexual form into a form of beauty in art and architecture etc ( phallic forms , the breasts , etc ) , symmetry has become symbolic of beauty , and
A green screens work by having the video editing software find every pixel within a certain color range and modifying it . The software looks for all the green bits in the image and changes them to something else . It has to be an unusual color , or the subject matter ( like a person standing in front ) will be modified as well . If the green screen was white instead , all the white bits on the weather reporters body will become invisible .
In propositional logic, a propositional formula is a type of syntactic formula which is well formed and has a truth value. If the values of all variables in a propositional formula are given, it determines a unique truth value. A propositional formula may also be called a propositional expression, a sentence, or a sentential formula. A propositional formula is constructed from simple propositions, such as "five is greater than three" or propositional variables such as p and q, using connectives or logical operators such as NOT, AND, OR, or IMPLIES; for example: In mathematics, a propositional formula is often more briefly referred to as a "proposition", but, more precisely, a propositional formula is not a proposition but a formal expression that denotes a proposition, a formal object under discussion, just like an expression such as "x + y" is not a value, but denotes a value. In some contexts, maintaining the distinction may be of importance.