Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to revolutionise medical imaging, but also carries the risk of perpetuating and even increasing existing health inequalities. An international collaboration of experts from diverse fields has come together to consider how to ensure that AI in medical imaging is developed and deployed to maximise the benefits and minimise the harms. Following a two-stage online consultation, we used a modified Delphi method to achieve consensus on key issues, and we provide here a summary of our discussions and recommendations for future AI development and deployment. Combining the principles of trustworthy AI with consideration of fairness and equity, we propose a framework to inform the development and deployment of AI in medical imaging. To ensure the trustworthy and fair use of AI in medical imaging, developers, clinicians and researchers should consider the following: promoting health equality and equity; upholding data privacy and security; maintaining technical performance; supporting clinical performance and decision making; and being responsive to patients and the public. In this report, we outline a consensus view on the key issues that need to be addressed, and make recommendations for the future development and deployment of AI in medical imaging.
Abstract: Medical imaging today is deeply intertwined with artificial intelligence (AI). However, the frequent, invisible, and often automatic deployment of AI in medical imaging, coupled with its rapid evolution, raises concerns about the technology's impact on radiologists and patients alike. In this paper, we present results from a multidisciplinary expert workshop, where we collectively formulated overarching principles and specific actionable recommendations to guide the development and deployment of trustworthy AI for medical imaging, including fairness, transparency, robustness, and reproducibility. We discuss the need for (1) transparency in the entire AI workflow, (2) robust and reproducible AI systems with comprehensive documentation, (3) well-defined clinical problem formulation and clear specification of the desired AI solution, and (4) fairness in the AI development process with reduced bias. We propose a comprehensive, stakeholder-engaged roadmap with actionable recommendations for each phase of the AI lifecycle to maximize the benefit and minimize the risk of AI in medical imaging. By tangible actions today, we can foster trustworthy AI for better health outcomes in the future.
Recent progress in interactive segmentation has primarily focused on extracting object boundaries accurately rather than the entire object region. While boundary-based methods can achieve better performance, they often require a time-consuming initial segmentation step to generate the boundary predictions. Moreover, interactions for these methods become complicated as they involve modifying the boundary rather than the entire object region. In this paper, we present EdgeFlow, a framework for achieving practical interactive segmentation with edge-guided flow. It leverages a boundary-based approach but removes the initial segmentation step, making the interaction process as intuitive as the recent region-based methods. Specifically, given a preliminary segmentation result, EdgeFlow directly optimizes the segmentation by introducing a novel edge-guided flow, which can effectively propagate the user's modifications to the entire object region while maintaining the boundary details. We build a theoretical guarantee for the flow's convergence, and the flow's implementation is efficiently accelerated via graph cuts. Our method can handle both binary and pixel-wise segmentation with or without explicit edge information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of EdgeFlow on both benchmark datasets and a new dataset that contains complex object instances and illustrations. When compared to state-of-the-art methods on the latter, EdgeFlow improves the efficiency of interaction by at least one order of magnitude while maintaining comparable performance.
Recent progress in interactive segmentation has largely focused on integrating edge information into the segmentation framework. However, existing methods treat the edge information as a separate module, resulting in discontinuities between the edge and segmentation outputs. We propose EdgeFlow, a framework that leverages a conditional edge-guided flow field to achieve seamless integration of edges and segments. EdgeFlow estimates the flow field between the initial and final segment maps, with the flow constrained by the underlying image edges. This edge-constrained flow provides an effective bridge between the initial and final outputs, yielding a smooth transition that preserves important structures. We build a principled optimizer for the flow field by formulating the problem as a conditional Monge-Kantorovich mass transport problem with edge constraints. This allows us to design an efficient algorithm that can handle the large flow magnitude caused by initial-final segment discrepancies. We demonstrate the effectiveness of EdgeFlow on both standalone segmentation and interactive segmentation benchmarks, showing significant improvements over the state of the art in terms of precision and efficiency.
Recent progress in medical image segmentation has largely been driven by supervised learning, but the availability of large-scale manually annotated datasets remains a bottleneck. In this paper, we tackle the problem of medical image segmentation with a semi-supervised learning framework that leverages only a small amount of labeled data. Our approach contrasts an encoder's representations of image patches with different labels, and uses the contrastive loss to regularize the encoder's parameters. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on three public segmentation benchmarks (MRBrain, ISLES, and LiTS), where we achieve competitive performance compared to fully-supervised methods, while using only a fraction of the labeled data. In particular, on the MRBrain dataset with only 200 labeled images (out of ~1000), our approach achieves a Dice score of 0.8314, outperforming the fully supervised state-of-the-art by ~3%.
Recent advances in medical imaging have led to a wealth of data for training deep learning models for various applications. However, annotating medical images is expensive and time-consuming, which restricts the availability of fully labeled datasets. In this paper, we tackle the problem of medical image segmentation with a semi-supervised learning (SSL) approach, where only a small fraction of the images in a dataset are labeled. Our method leverages the contrastive learning framework, which enables the model to learn effectively from a variety of unlabeled data. We propose a novel SSL approach that combines contrastive learning with self-supervised and supervised learning. Our method utilizes a self-supervised objective that enforces the agreement of embeddings learned from unlabeled and labeled data, and a supervised objective that optimizes the segmentation performance on labeled data. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three public datasets, showing that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance in medical image segmentation with significantly fewer labels.
Recent progress in segmentation of multiple organs in medical images has resulted in algorithms that are often trained and evaluated on heavily imbalanced datasets, where certain classes may have far fewer training examples than others. This can lead to overfitting on the majority class and poor performance on the minority classes. We find that the commonly used class weighting scheme, in which the loss is weighted by the inverse frequency of the class in the training set, may not be sufficient to handle this imbalance. In this paper, we investigate the use of two other classes of techniques, including (1) sampling strategies that result in more balanced datasets and (2) loss functions that are designed to handle imbalance. We find that both approaches can significantly improve performance on minority classes, but that they work in different ways and are most effective when used together. To facilitate future research on multi-organ segmentation, we make our datasets, implementations, and results publicly available.
Recent progresses in semantic segmentation mainly focus on image datasets with a fine balance between the positive and negative samples. However, in many real-world applications, the dataset is often skewed, containing significantly more positive samples than negative ones. This imbalance brings problems for the training of deep neural networks, since they tend to memorize the positive samples and fail to generalize well to the negative samples. In this paper, we argue that the degradation of performance for segmenting organs is mainly due to the existence of other organs around, and a segmentator firstly suffers a “combo loss” due to the imbalanced data, and then an “organ loss” due to the complexity of positive samples. To address these two types of loss, we propose a Novel Training Strategy via Combo Deformation and Augmentation (NTSCADA), which contains two components: a combo deformation and an augmentation strategy. Specifically, we propose to use a deformation field to map the positive samples to locations with fewer samples, and an augmentation strategy to resize the positive samples for better generalization. We evaluate our method on the IASGD and DDRD datasets for multi-organ segmentation, and compared to the state-of-the-art methods, our approach achieves a much better performance in terms of both metrics, intersection of union (IoU) and pixel accuracy (PA).
We present a novel approach for training a 3D seismic fault segmentation model using only a few 2D slice labels. The model is based on attention mechanisms, which allow it to focus on the most relevant features in the input data. We show that our approach can achieve high performance on 3D seismic fault segmentation tasks, even when trained with only a small number of 2D slice labels. Our approach is fast and efficient, and can be used to segment faults in large 3D seismic volumes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on a public dataset, and show that it outperforms the state-of-the-art in 3D seismic fault segmentation. Code is available at https://github.com/yzslab/SeisFaultSeg.
Recent works tend to complicate segmentators for better performance, making them inaccessible to low-power platforms like IoT devices, and impractical for real-time applications. In this work, we aim to simplify semantic segmentation, while maintaining high performance. We propose Segmenter, a transformer-based segmentation model that is extremely lightweight, fast, and parameter-efficient. It achieves this with a simple transformer architecture, and an innovative relative positional encoding strategy, which allows the model to easily run on devices with memory or computational constraints. We conduct extensive experiments on ACDC and Cityscapes datasets, and show that our model achieves 79.3% and 91.3% mIOU on ACDC-Char and Cityscapes-Char, while being up to 22 times faster, and up to 4 times lighter compared to the state-of-the-art.
Recent works have shown that transformers are a powerful tool for image classification tasks, achieving excellent results. However, in semantic segmentation, transformers have only been applied to the decoding/classification step, while majority of the recent works still use convolutional layers for the encoder and feature extraction steps. In this work, we argue that transformers can be naturally applied to perform these steps as well, and can replace fully connected CRFs for pixel-level labeling. To demonstrate this, we construct Segmenter, a state-of-the-art semantic segmentation architecture that uses transformers for both the encoder and decoding steps. Our encoder-decoder model, termed Segmenter Dual Transformer (SDT), achieves promising results on ADE20K and Cityscapes, and shows advantages over the recent convolutional-based models. We further introduce a simple yet effective locality-aware attention module to improve performance. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments to study the effects of different design choices in our SDT model.
Recent progress in semantic segmentation mainly focuses on designing models that compile images and their annotations into compact representations, in order to exploit the strong correlations among pixels. These models however ignore the fact that the annotations themselves contain valuable information, which could be used to improve the segmentation. In this paper, we follow a different approach, and attempt to exploit the contextual information in the image captions. We design a simple yet effective approach to mine the contextual information, and integrate it into the recently proposed Mask R-CNN. Specifically, we propose to use a graph neural network to build a context graph for each word in the caption, and then we compose these context graphs to obtain a global context graph for the whole caption. Finally, the global context graph is exploited in Mask R-CNN to refine the segmentation results. We perform comprehensive experiments on the Cityscapes and COCO datasets, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Recent progress in deep learning enables training models to solve a broad range of tasks on images, alongside the tremendous success of semantic segmentation, which aims to assign a semantic label to each pixel in an image. However, the state-of-the-art performance is heavily relying on a large amount of labeled images with fine-grained and exhaustive annotations, which are difficult to obtain. To overcome this bottleneck, in this paper, we aim to mine contextual information beyond the image for semantic segmentation. We find that the power of language provides an effective means to describe and convey the subtle contexts, thus advancing the performance of semantic segmentation. Specifically, we propose a novel Adapter Module that bridges the image and language domains to harness the semantic contexts in an adaptive way. It forms a module within the state-of-the-art architectures for semantic segmentation, yielding substantial gains over the strong baselines on four challenging benchmarks, including Cityscapes, ACDC, and Mapillary Vistas.
Recent progress in deep learning has advanced referring expression comprehension, i.e., the understanding of sparse referring expressions that refer to objects or regions in images or videos, from image regions identification to pixel-wise segmentation. However, existing works mainly focus on 2D referring expression comprehension disregarding the inherent 3D structure of the real world. In this paper, we present a comprehensive multi-modal framework to tackle referring image segmentation, which takes advantages of both referring expressions and geometric constraints, to achieve referring expression comprehension with 3D awareness. Specifically, we first devise a new geometric constraint that leverages the 3D scene structure to obtain initial segmentations. Then, we formulate referring expression comprehension as a maximum a posteriori estimation problem that integrates the referring expression predictions and the geometric constraint. Furthermore, we explore a progressive refinement approach to iteratively refine the segmentation results. We validate the effectiveness of our method on the ReferItSeg dataset, which is a large-scale dataset for referring image segmentation, and achieve state-of-the-art performance.
Few-shot segmentation with global and local contrastive learning. This paper explores the connection between few-shot segmentation and contrastive learning. Given a fixed network fine-tuned on a large dataset, we show that training the network to classify segments in a small number of classes (e.g., 5) is highly ineffective, as the network's capacity to memorize incorrect labels is surprisingly high. To overcome this, we propose a two-step training approach. First, we train a global contrastive learning (GCL) model by minimizing the mutual information between segment predictions and labels on the training set. This is followed by a localization step that iteratively refines the segmentation map within the support regions of each class. We show that this approach effectively combines the global and local characteristics of few-shot segmentation, improving accuracy by large margins over the state-of-the-art on multiple benchmarks.
Interactive segmentation is an important technique for correcting mispredictions in medical images, but existing methods can be time-consuming and require significant user interaction. This paper presents a efficient and generic interactive segmentation framework that reduces the amount of user interaction required while maintaining high accuracy. The framework utilizes a fully-automatic segmentation algorithm as a starting point, and then allows the user to quickly and easily correct any mispredictions using a novel interactive segmentation tool. The tool enables the user to quickly select the correct segmentation boundary, and the framework then automatically refines the boundary based on the user's input. The framework is evaluated on a variety of medical image datasets, and results show that it significantly reduces the amount of user interaction required while maintaining high accuracy. Furthermore, the framework is designed to be generic, and can be easily adapted to segment different anatomical structures in various medical image modalities.
In this paper, we present an efficient and generic interactive segmentation framework for corrective segmentation of medical images. Our method accurately extracts the ground truth region of interest (ROI) from a mispredicted lesion mask in a semi-automatic fashion, without any shape restriction, and typically in less than one minute. Our framework leverages a deep fully convolutional neural network (FCN) as the main segmentation engine in an interactive segmentation setup, where the user can correct the mispredictions of the network by simply drawing bounding boxes around the true ROI on a limited number of key frames. We employ a graphical interface that enables the user to provide minimal user interactions in the form of bounding boxes on the mispredicted frames. Our in-house implementation of the FCN network is designed to output a segmentation mask together with confidence scores, which are then used to weigh the influence of the user's bounding boxes on the final segmentation result. We evaluate our method on volumetric medical images of lung CT scans and positron emission tomography (PET) brain scans, and demonstrate that our approach is capable of producing very accurate segmentations in a fraction of the time compared to the state-of-the-art interactive segmentation methods.
We provide a general framework for constructing prediction sets, i.e., sets that predict the values of an uncertain quantity, with probability 1. In addition to simplicity and accuracy, our framework controls risk by leveraging the order structure of the variable of interest. We provide both a distribution-free and a frequentist approach, with the latter enabling formal statistical inference for the prediction set. We illustrate the approaches through two real data examples: the first concerns the number of tropical cyclones in the Atlantic ocean, and the second the number of Ph.D. graduates in US mathematics departments. Compared to other prediction sets, ours achieve much better accuracy and smaller expected prediction errors.
We propose Distribution-Free Prediction Sets (DPS), a new method for predictive distribution construction that is both distribution-free and produces prediction sets that control the worst-case risk. DPS leverages the representation of uncertainty provided by the set-based prediction schemes, which give a set of predictions from which a random variable can be determined. We enforce control of worst-case risk on the tails by limiting the prediction set sizes above and below a threshold, which results in a “skinny” tube-shaped set in the tail regions. This tail constraint enables use of DPS in risk management and regulation. We show that DPS reproduce the frequentist coverage achieved by a classical predictive distribution, thus providing a frequentist motivation and explanation for the tail constraints. We establish finite-sample guarantees for the frequentist coverage of DPS in terms of the constrained sample risks and show that DPS achieve the desired coverage level asymptotically as the sample size increases. An attractive feature of DPS is that the amount of tail risk can be quantified and controlled at prediction time, without needing to specify a tail risk measure or estimate the tails of the unknown distribution ahead of time. We illustrate the use of DPS in two real data examples and show that the proposed method can be used to construct prediction sets that achieve the desired coverage levels.
Deep learning has recently become popular for sonar image segmentation, but the majority of research has focused on supervised learning approaches that require large amounts of manually labeled training data. This can be a time-consuming and costly process, particularly for underwater sonar images where manually labeling images is slow and difficult. In this paper, we present an iterative, unsupervised synthetic aperture sonar image segmentation framework that is both deep and learns from sparse labels. Our approach uses a U-Net architecture and an iterative self-supervised learning strategy that progressively refines the segmentation results without any user interaction. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on a synthetic aperture sonar dataset and show that our method can achieve high segmentation performance with only a small number of labeled training examples. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/ARL-RED-Team/idus.
Recent results in deep learning have enabled the development of an effective end-to-end trainable sonar image segmentation network. However, segmentation networks are data-intensive and require large amounts of manually labeled images, which can be difficult to obtain in the sonar imaging context. We present an unsupervised iterative segmentation network that is trained entirely on synthetic images, without the need for any manually labeled data. Our method uses a generative adversarial network to produce a series of segmentations, which are then used to refine the segmentation network. This iterative process is repeated until convergence, resulting in a highly accurate segmentation network. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a large dataset of sonar images, and show that it achieves state-of-the-art performance compared to other unsupervised and semi-supervised segmentation methods.
Recent progress in image synthesis through the use of GANs provides a new opportunity for image understanding. In particular, we show that the image representation learned by GANs can be used to produce state-of-the-art performance on semantic image segmentation, a task that is fundamental to many applications in computer vision. We achieve this by proposing a new framework that leverages the rich structural information encoded in the generative models of GANs. Our approach, which we term "Segmentation in Style", combines an adversarial reconstruction loss with a discriminator that performs segmentation. This framework is applicable to any GAN architecture and we demonstrate its effectiveness on top of StyleGAN2 and CLIP, a recently proposed GAN-based image representation. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ACDC and Cityscapes segmentation benchmarks without requiring any labeled data for training, but rather only a few images for initialization.
Recent progress in image synthesis through the use of GANs provides an opportunity for new methods of image understanding. In particular, the style latent vector of StyleGAN refers to an average of many latent codes that correspond to image regions with similar styles, i.e. similar appearance. We propose a new method for semantic image segmentation based on predicting style codes of images using CLIP, and a segmentation mask is obtained by an additional segmentation module. Our method is trained without requiring any segmentation labels, and it is able to automatically discover a hierarchy of image regions that corresponds to object structures in the image. We show that when trained on COCO images, our method discovers the major objects in the image as well as the background, and it outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on the NYTech segmentation benchmark.
Semantic image segmentation, which aims to assign semantic labels to each pixel in an image, is a fundamental problem in computer vision. Recent progress in this field is mainly driven by deep learning models, which can leverage large-scale labeled images to learn robust representations. However, training such models requires a significant amount of labeled data, which is difficult and expensive to obtain. To overcome this challenge, we propose a novel approach for semantic image segmentation based on double similarity distillation (DSD). Our method exploits the intrinsic hierarchical structure of segmentation models to effectively reduce the amount of labeled data required for training. Specifically, we introduce a teacher-student paradigm, where a teacher model is trained on a small amount of labeled data and then used to distill knowledge to a student model trained on a larger dataset. By leveraging the similarity between the teacher and student models, we can significantly improve the performance of the student model while keeping the amount of labeled data required for training low. We evaluate our method on the challenging PASCAL VOC 2012 segmentation benchmark, and achieve state-of-the-art performance with only a fraction of the labeled data required by previous approaches. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in reducing the amount of labeled data needed for training robust segmentation models. Our code and models are available at: https://github.com/Cartucho/DSD
Semantic image segmentation, which aims to predict a label for each pixel in an image, is a fundamental problem in computer vision. Recent progress in this area has been driven by deep learning models, such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs). However, these models are still not perfect, and they can be fooled by images that are similar but have different labels. This paper introduces a new model called Double Similarity Distillation (DSD), which is designed to improve the performance of semantic image segmentation models by making them more robust to these types of images. DSD is based on the observation that images that are similar in terms of their low-level features, such as color and texture, but have different labels, often have similar high-level features as well. For example, two images of mountains may have similar color and texture characteristics, but one may be labeled as a forest and the other as a mountain. To address this issue, DSD learns a joint distribution of feature maps and labels from a training dataset, which helps to align the distributions of similar images and improve the segmentation performance. The experimental results show that DSD significantly improves the performance of semantic image segmentation models on a variety of datasets, including the Cityscapes, CamVid, and Mapillary datasets. The improvements are particularly significant for images that are similar but have different labels, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Overall, this paper introduces a new model for semantic image segmentation that is designed to
Recent advances in supervised learning for medical image segmentation have benefited from large datasets and powerful models, but training data with ground truth segmentations remain scarce for many applications. In this work, we tackle the issue of limited training data for medical image segmentation by developing a spatial guided self-supervised clustering (SGSC) network. Our approach leverages the spatial consistency of medical images to learn meaningful representations for segmentation without relying on ground truth segmentations. We introduce a novel self-supervised loss function that encourages spatial coherence among cluster assignments, and combine it with an attention module to focus on informative regions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three different medical image segmentation tasks: fetal brain, abdominal aortic aneurysm, and prostate, showing that our approach produces segmentations comparable to state-of-the-art supervised methods while using only unlabeled data.
Recent progress in contextual encoders has propelled clinical image segmentation, yet solely relies on pixel similarities or image-level annotations, which limits the model's ability to capture high-level contextual information. In this paper, we present Spatial-Guided Self-supervised Clustering Network (SGS-Net) for unsupervised medical image segmentation. SGS-Net introduces a spatial-guided constraint to the recently proposed Encoder-Assembly-Decoder framework, forming a clustering-based objective for unpaired and unstructured images. Without any labels, SGS-Net learns to discover underlying structures from raw image features, leading to robust segmentation. We evaluate SGS-Net on four publicly available kidney and pancreas segmentation benchmarks, where it achieves state-of-the-art performance in most cases. The code is made available at https://github.com/ externals/SGS-Net.
General image segmentation is a fundamental task in medical imaging, and deep learning methods have demonstrated promising performance. However, these methods often require large amounts of manually annotated training data, which is difficult to obtain for medical images. In this paper, we present a new framework for general medical image segmentation that is based on a fully convolutional neural network (FCN) and a novel loss function that is tailored to medical images. Our framework is designed to be robust to variations in image quality, resolution, and noise, which are common in medical images. We demonstrate the performance of our method on a publicly available dataset of abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans, and show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance. We also show that our method is general and can be applied to other medical image segmentation tasks, such as lung CT segmentation.
General medical image segmentation is a fundamental but challenging task in radiology. Despite the recent advances in deep learning, the trained models are often overly sensitive to variations in image acquisition protocols, finding-characteristics, and noise, which limits their deployment in clinical practice. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective approach to address the model's lack of robustness. Specifically, we train a segmentation model using a mixture of medical images with varying protocols. Then, during the testing process, we implicitly estimate the unknown protocol of the given test image via a canonical correlation analysis (CCA), and adapt the pre-trained model accordingly. The proposed approach is applicable to any pre-trained segmentation model and does not require any modification to the model architecture or the training process. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on three publicly available MRI datasets, where our method achieves robustness against protocol variations with a negligible loss in segmentation accuracy.
Recent studies have demonstrated the potential of deep learning for medical image analysis. However, these methods usually require a large amount of manually annotated training data, which is difficult to obtain for medical images. In this paper, we present a semi-supervised learning method for left atrium segmentation in cardiac MR images. Our method leverages a large amount of unlabeled data and a small amount of manually annotated data to train a deep neural network. To deal with the class imbalance and the lack of annotated data, we use a mutual consistency training strategy, which ensures that the predictions from the model with semi-supervised labels are similar to the fully supervised labels. Our method achieves a Dice similarity coefficient of 0.8033 and a Hausdorff distance of 7.35 mm on a public dataset, which outperforms the state-of-the-art fully-supervised method by a large margin. Furthermore, our method only requires approximately 1/50 of the annotated training data.
Current manual segmentation of the left atrium (LA) is tedious and expensive. In this work, we aim to develop an automatic LA segmentation method to assist the diagnosis of heart diseases. Unlike previous works that treat it as a binary segmentation problem, we address the problem as a pixel-wise segmentation of the LA region from the whole heart, which is more challenging. To tackle the difficulty of the pixel-wise segmentation, we propose to use a fully convolutional network (FCN) with an atrous spatial pyramid pooling (ASPP) structure and incorporate a novel mutual consistency training (MCT) strategy to effectively train the network. In addition, we propose to use a fully supervised network to provide accurate pixel-wise predictions as ground truth for semi-supervised training. Specifically, we train our network in a semi-supervised manner, where we use the LA mask from a fully supervised network as the ground truth for training our network with the MCT strategy. We evaluate our method on 100 cardiac magnetic resonance images and compare it to state-of-the-art binary and pixel-wise segmentation methods. The results show that our method achieves a Dice similarity coefficient of 0.8821, which outperforms all compared methods.
Recent advances in deep learning have propelled the development of visual tracking algorithms, enabling the adoption of off-the-shelf deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as features for correlation filtering-based methods. However, deep correlation filters still face challenges in handling target appearance variations, occlusions, and out-of-distribution (OOD) samples. To address these issues, we propose to learn a cell-level convolutional architecture for visual tracking (CHASE), which enables the model to adapt to different kinds of target appearance variations and occlusions. We first introduce a cell-level correlation filtering framework that operates on cell-generated features for efficient feature representation and localization. Then, we propose a differentiable neural architecture search (NAS) framework to optimize the cell-level architecture for accurate and robust tracking. Specifically, we design an innovative search space that explicitly considers the correlations between cells, such that the learned cell-level architecture can effectively capture the target structure and context. Moreover, to alleviate the OOD issues, we propose a robust tracking framework that can explicitly handle OOD samples via a robust loss function and an OOD detection module. Experimental results on multiple challenging datasets, including OOD scenarios, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach against state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods.
Recent progress in visual object tracking is largely driven by deep learning. However, existing learning-based methods tend to overfit the specific datasets during training and fail to generalize to unseen datasets, especially for complex and challenging tracking scenarios. To address this issue, we propose to use neural architecture search (NAS) to find a robust tracking framework. Our approach first learns a configurable network skeleton (i.e., a cell-based architecture) for visual tracking, and then optimizes the network via a gradient-based NAS algorithm that searches over different cells (i.e., operations) to adapt to target appearance variations. In this way, our approach treats the tracking framework as a whole and learns a robust cell-level architecture via different operations that can be selected from a search space. Experiments on VOT-2018 and VOT-2019 datasets validate the efficacy of our approach compared to the state-of-the-art. Code is available at https://github.com/AI4FOLLOWER/CHASE.
We introduce a new weakly-supervised segmentation framework based on the geodesic active contour model (GAC). Unlike existing methods that use pairwise constraints learned from shape contexts, our approach utilizes a new energy term in the GAC model that favors contours that intersect a given set of extreme points. We show that the resulting optimization problem can be formulated as a geodesic flow on a Riemannian manifold and propose an efficient algorithm to solve it. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the challenging task of annotating pixels in densely-packed objects (e.g., cells in tissues) in a weakly-supervised manner, where only the locations of a small subset of pixels inside the objects are given. In this setting, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on two benchmark datasets.
We introduce a new weakly-supervised segmentation framework that leverages geodesic inter-extreme points (GEIX) for object instance segmentation. Our approach extends the traditional geodesic ellipsoids to a new class of shapes that capture the relationships among multiple objects. This is achieved by optimizing over the manifold of the geometric shapes, referred to as geodesic inter-extreme variations, where the optimization objective is driven by the geometric properties and the label correlations among the objects. We show that the resulting optimization is efficiently solved as a linear programming (LP) problem on certain parametrization of the geodesic inter-extreme variations. In addition, to effectively solve the LP problem, we propose an algorithm that iteratively updates the shapes by performing a series of convex optimizations. We evaluate our approach on the cityscapes dataset, where our method outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches that rely on geodesics.
K-Net: Towards Unified Image Segmentation We present a simple, fast, and effective approach to image segmentation that achieves state-of-the-art performance on both integer and pixel-wise labeling. K-Net learns a linear classifier in a weakly-supervised manner by leveraging the power of conditional random fields and the structure of deep neural networks. This allows us to use a single network to segment images without needing to choose between the computational efficiency of integer-based methods and the accuracy of pixel-wise labeling methods. Our approach is fast enough for semi-interactive segmentation, while achieving strong performance on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at https://github.com/autonomousvision/K-Net.
K-Net: Towards Unified Image Segmentation K-Net is a novel deep learning framework for effective image segmentation. It utilizes a unique combination of a U-Net architecture with a k-means clustering algorithm to achieve precise and coherent segmentation results. In this work, we introduce a novel architecture called the K-Net, which combines the strengths of both U-Net and k-means to deliver state-of-the-art performance in image segmentation. Our approach demonstrates superiority in terms of segmentation quality and running time, as evidenced by extensive experimental evaluations on a variety of benchmark datasets. The proposed method is versatile and can be applied to different imaging modalities and segmentation tasks.
Recent progress in deep learning has propelled convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to advance the state-of-the-art in image segmentation. However, CNNs suffer from the lack of effective uncertainty measures, which hinders their applications in reliable and safety-critical environments. In this paper, we exploit Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) to address this issue, which have shown promising results in producing meaningful uncertainty measures. Nevertheless, BNNs usually demand a large number of parameters and thus are less compact compared to CNNs. To overcome this limitation, we propose ComBiNet, a novel BNN architecture that is specifically designed for image segmentation. It inherits the merits of both CNNs and BNNs, namely high performance and uncertainty estimation, while maintaining a compact architecture. We validate ComBiNet on multiple public datasets, including MIT-CBCL, NYU-VOC, and Cityscapes. Results show that our approach achieves promising performance with significant uncertainty estimation, and outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.
We address the problem of semantic segmentation of very fine resolution urban scene images, where the ground truth pixel-level labels are available. We propose a bilateral awareness network (BAN) that utilizes a transformer encoder decoder to model the bilateral relations of objects in the scene, while also taking into account the global context. Our approach is based on the observation that fine-grained object segmentation of very high resolution (VH) urban scene images exhibits a strong bilateral constraint, i.e., the object appearance is influenced by its bilateral context, which we refer to as the object and its spatially-adjacent background. The BAN effectively captures the bilateral context by introducing a novel bilateral transformer encoder decoder architecture that learns to predict object masks and their corresponding background masks. It models the bilateral relations of objects with a self-supervised objective that does not require any additional annotation. We evaluate our approach on the Cityscapes dataset and show that it achieves state-of-the-art performance. Our code and models are available at: this https URL.
We introduce a bilateral awareness network (BAN) that achieves state-of-the-art performance on semantic segmentation of very fine resolution urban scene images. The BAN utilizes a transformer encoder architecture to capture multi-scale context in parallel with an efficient convolutional decoder to refine the context into segmentation masks with precise localization. A novel bilateral attention module is introduced in the transformer encoder to selectively attend to distant spatial support and suppress noisy background details. Furthermore, the decoder utilizes a grouped convolution module that explicitly groups pixels along object boundaries to effectively exploit object shape information for accurate segmentation. To evaluate the BAN, we conduct extensive experiments on Cityscapes andecc UFC-SDK-03 datasets. Without using any extra training data or post-processing techniques, the BAN achieves 71.3% mIOU on the Cityscapes val and 73.3% mIOU on the UFC-SDK-03 val datasets, which significantly surpasses the current state-of-the-art.
Recent developments in distributed computing and cluster computing technologies have made it possible to efficiently process huge datasets that cannot be handled by a single computer. In this paper, we present a framework for efficient processing of large-scale image segmentation problems based on distributed clustering algorithms. Our approach is based on dividing the input image into smaller regions, and processing each region in parallel on different computers. We propose a few distributed clustering algorithms that are suitable for image segmentation, and evaluate their performance on a large-scale image segmentation benchmark. Our experimental results show that the proposed approach can achieve significant speedup compared to a single-computer implementation, while maintaining a high quality of segmentation results.
Abstract—Image segmentation is cumbersome but crucial for many image processing tasks. Methods based on clustering, however, seem to lack the accuracy when the image size is large. Also, when the image size is huge, it becomes impossible to process it on a single machine. In this paper, we present a distributed image segmentation algorithm that can achieve high accuracy even on large-scale images. Our method to segment the image is based on the widely used K-means algorithm, where we have implemented a distributed version of the K-means algorithm using MapReduce. We evaluate our implementation on a large dataset using three benchmark measures, and the results show that our implementation achieves high accuracy even with a large number of clusters and is nearly linearly scalable with the number of machines used. Introduction—Image segmentation is the process of partitioning an image into multiple segments with respect to some criteria. It has been an active research area for the last four decades, and there are many algorithms that have been proposed for segmentation [1, 2]. Image segmentation serves as a fundamental tool in many applications of image processing, such as object extraction, content-based image retrieval, and image understanding. When the image size is large, segmentation through clustering becomes a cumbersome task. Clustering algorithms tend to produce poor quality results, as they require a large number of iterations to converge accurately. This is due to the fact that the computational complexity of these algorithms is proportional to the square of the number of pixels
We present a real-time algorithm for the segmentation of medical images based on a trilateral attention network. Our approach combines the use of a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a graph-based segmentation algorithm to achieve accurate and efficient segmentation. The CNN is used to extract features from the medical image, while the graph-based segmentation algorithm uses these features to segment the image. The trilateral attention network is designed to improve the segmentation accuracy by considering the relationships between the three primary anatomical structures in the image: the tumor, the healthy tissue, and the background. We evaluate our algorithm on a dataset of head computed tomography (CT) scans and show that it achieves a high degree of accuracy and is able to run in real-time. Our algorithm has three main components: the CNN, the graph-based segmentation algorithm, and the trilateral attention network. The CNN is used to extract features from the medical image, including the tumor, healthy tissue, and background. The graph-based segmentation algorithm uses these features to segment the image, using a shortest-path algorithm to find the boundaries between the tumor and healthy tissue. The trilateral attention network is designed to improve the segmentation accuracy by considering the relationships between the three primary anatomical structures in the image. It does this by combining the features from the CNN with the graph-based segmentation algorithm, using attention weights to determine the importance of each feature in the segmentation process. We evaluate our algorithm on a dataset of head CT scans and show
We propose a new algorithm for real-time stereo matching, which can potentially be used in minimally invasive surgery. Our algorithm is based on the Bayesian dense inverse searching (BDIS) algorithm, which uses a probabilistic approach to find the best match between two sets of data. The BDIS algorithm is designed to be efficient and to handle large amounts of data, which makes it well-suited for real-time applications. We evaluate our algorithm on a set of stereo images from the MICCAI 2012 stereo matching challenge and compare its performance to that of other state-of-the-art algorithms. Our algorithm achieves competitive results while running at nearly real-time speeds. Furthermore, we modify the BDIS algorithm to incorporate a smoothness prior, in order to improve its performance on challenging regions of the images. This modification improves the accuracy of our algorithm, particularly in areas with low contrast and texture. We believe that our algorithm has the potential to be used in real-time stereo matching applications, such as minimally invasive surgery.
We propose a new algorithm for real-time stereo matching of surgical images using a Bayesian dense inverse search (BDIS) approach. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) poses challenges for computer-assisted intervention (CAI) due to limited access, navigational difficulties, and the substantial anatomical variation between patients. We address these challenges by developing a generic texture-encoded dictionary learned from a large database of annotated surgical images (MISDOOP) representing a wide range of surgical scenarios and anatomical variations. Given a stereo pair of intra-operative images, we find the best match between the current view and the dictionary elements and use the coordinate transformation of the best-matching element to infer the 3D point cloud of the scene. We validate the approach on synthetic scenes and clinical data and show that our approach compares favorably to state-of-the-art algorithms on publicly available benchmarks while being fast enough for real-time applications.
Recent advances in connectomics have yielded high-quality images of neural tissue, but manual analysis still poses a substantial bottleneck. In this paper, we present RLCorrector, a reinforced proofreading system that assists a user in segmenting connectomics images. It is common for users to accidentally add or remove pixels from their segmentation, so we train a neural network to correct such errors. We train our network using a novel loss function that incentivizes it to make corrections resembling human corrections. We evaluate RLCorrector on both simulated and real world data, and show that it induces significant improvements in segmentation accuracy whilst requiring minimal user interaction.
Recent advances in connectomics have yielded high-resolution images of neural tissue, providing unprecedented opportunities for computational analysis of neuronal connectivity. However, segmenting cells in these images is a challenging problem, due to the size and complexity of the datasets, as well as the significant amount of noise and artifacts in the images. We have developed a proofreading approach for segmentation of connectomics images, based on the concept of a supervisor neural network that provides weak and optionally randomized feedback to a worker neural network performing the segmentation. We introduce a new variant of the basic supervisor/worker algorithm that uses a Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach to reward or penalize the worker's segmentation output, and allows the supervisor to provide stronger feedback when it has higher confidence. We show that this approach, which we call RLCorrector, significantly improves segmentation accuracy in connectomics images, and is efficient enough to be applied to very large datasets. Our evaluation on a publicly available dataset shows that RLCorrector achieves a 3.7% absolute reduction in segmentation error relative to a state-of-the-art segmentation algorithm, and a 5.7% relative reduction over a multi-expert segmentation.
We introduce Points2Polygons, an approach for training a geometric context-based segmentation model using only weak labels, i.e., point-level labels. Our model segments images based on the underlying geometric context of the weak labels. We introduce an encoder-decoder architecture that leverages the geometric consistency of object segments to refine initial predictions. We train our model using an adversarial loss that encourages the model to produce segmentations with geometric properties similar to the weak labels. Our method does not require any post-processing steps, such as graph cuts or conditional random fields. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the Cityscapes and KITTI datasets, where we achieve state-of-the-art performance on the weakly-supervised segmentation task. Our results show that our approach performs on par with fully-supervised segmentation methods in terms of accuracy, while being more efficient in terms of training time and the amount of labeled data required. Our main contributions can be summarised as follows: We propose a new weakly-supervised segmentation approach that utilizes geometric context to segment images without any post-processing steps. We introduce an encoder-decoder architecture that leverages the geometric consistency of object segments to refine initial predictions. We train our model using an adversarial loss that encourages the model to produce segmentations with geometric properties similar to the weak labels. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the Cityscapes and KITTI datasets, where we achieve state-of-the-art performance on the weakly-supervised segmentation task.
We introduce Points2Polygons (P2P), a novel approach for instance-based segmentation of 3D point clouds that only requires weak annotation in the form of semantic labels. P2P utilizes a context-based approach, computing a sparse point-wise semantic affinity graph between input points and labeled points from a training dataset. Affinity graph construction is performed by an adversarial network that reasons about point context. We show that training this network is equivalently to learning a data-driven partitioning of the 3D space. Consequently, tested points are assigned to the nearest partition, which is in turn mapped to a semantic class. P2P doesnt require a separate post-processing step, as done by most existing weakly-supervised methods for point clouds. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the task of segmenting indoor scenes, where only a coarse semantic occupancy grid is available as weak supervision. Our method achieves 68.4% mean accuracy on the Part segmentation benchmark, outperforming previous state-of-the-art methods that utilize substantially stronger weak supervision.
We present a view of exact inference in graphs from the degree-4 sum-of-squares hierarchy (SoSH) that yields the currently fastest known algorithms for approximate counting, maximization, and minimization derived from a broad range of probability distributions. These algorithms have an approximation quality that is rarely worse than existing state-of-the-art algorithms for the corresponding problems, while having the advantage of yielding exact inference results in graphs under the SoSH relaxation. We present a general recipe for converting any problem in graphs that is solvable by belief propagation (BP) on a factor graph into a problem that can be solved by generalized belief propagation (BP^*) on a factor graph, and show that the resulting algorithm is always an approximation of the original problem with a quality that is rarely worse than previously known algorithms for the corresponding problem. This recipe enables us to obtain our fast algorithms for approximate counting, maximization, and minimization. We present experimental results that demonstrate the performance of our algorithms on a set of real-world benchmarks.
In this paper, a method of high-resolution segmentation of tooth root fuzzy edges based on polynomial curve fitting with landmark detection is proposed. Specially, we establish a coordinate system of dental radiograph via four detected landmark points, and then fit the polynomial curve to the top and bottom of the tooth root. Next, we segment the tooth root fuzzy edges based on the fitting curves. The experimental results show that the proposed method can effectively extract the tooth root and its fuzzy edges, and has the advantages of high precision and good stability.
In this paper, a method of segmentation of tooth root edges from dental digital images based on polynomial curve fitting is proposed. First, the edge of the tooth is detected by a Canny detector. Then, the elliptic approximation of the edge points is calculated based on the polynomial curve fitting algorithm given by least square method. Finally, the initial curve segments are got by landmark detection and the curve segments are fused to form the final tooth root edge. The experimental results show that the method presented in this paper can effectively extract the edge of tooth root, and has a certain ability of segmenting tooth roots in noisy images.
We present a new algorithm for deep active contours that combines the advantages of distance vector flow (DVF) and the recent progress in deep learning. Our approach uses a convolutional neural network (CNN) to learn a locally controlled distance function in a data-driven manner. This allows us to modify the behavior of the DVF according to the local characteristics of the image, resulting in a more flexible and accurate algorithm. We show that our approach can handle a variety of tasks, including image segmentation, object tracking, and pose estimation, and we demonstrate its performance on several challenging datasets. Our code and models are publicly available at https://github.com/CVMI-Lab/DAC-LCDVF.
We present a new algorithm for active contour modeling of objects in images based on a variational approach to minimize the energy of the active contour model. The proposed method, called Deep Active Contours using Locally Controlled Distance Vector Flow (DAC-LCDVF), combines ideas from adaptive curve evolution, level set methods, and deep learning. In particular, the spatial coherence of the contour evolution is enforced by a locally controlled distance vector field, computed with a deep neural network. The network is trained using a collection of image-based prototypes that cover the diversity of the foreground objects as well as the background. We demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach on a variety of image segmentation benchmarks, showing that it produces robust and accurate segmentations of objects in images, outperforming the state-of-the-art active contour models.
Most referring expressions in natural language are grounded in visual or spatial content, such as demonstratives (e.g., “here”, “there”) or spatial prepositions (e.g., “in”, “on”). Moreover, the successful deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies often hinges on the interpretability of the model outputs, especially in safety-critical domains such as healthcare and autonomous driving. In this paper, we tackle the referring expression generation (REG) task with a progressive comprehension (PC) approach, where a referring expression is generated by gradually refining an initially vague description of the referent through interaction with a user. We propose a cross-modal PC framework that can not only reason about the visual and linguistic content together, but also explain how the final referring expression is derived. We evaluate our method on the ReferIt dataset, and show that our model can generate more accurate referring expressions compared to the state-of-the-art methods while providing interpretable referring segments.
Most referring expressions in natural language are not explicit but rather rely on the hearer’s background knowledge, i.e., the semantic common ground between the speaker and the hearer. In this paper, we investigate the referring expression generation in a multi-modal dialogue setting, where the hearer can freely navigate the visual and the conversational modalities for referent recovery. We propose a modular multi-modal progressive comprehension model with weakly-supervised training. In particular, we identify referring segments as regions/objects that capture the referring expression in the conversational modality, and use a refer-expression dataset to train a referring segment classifier. We propose a cross-modal referring region retrieval module that highlights the regions in the image most relevant to the referring segment. Furthermore, we propose a progressive compressive module that reasons about the saliency of the referring segment in an iterative manner, and compresses the visual input to a more concise representation over time. We evaluate our model on a referring expression dataset, and show that our model can effectively leverage the strength of different modalities under the proposed weakly-supervised training framework.
A Large-Scale Benchmark for Food Image Segmentation Food image segmentation is a fundamental task for enabling smarter tools in culinary applications. There have been recent advances in the field, but no standardized benchmark is available for the community to compare different approaches. We introduce a large-scale dataset of 5000 images, each of which is manually segmented into nine semantic classes by human experts. To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest dataset with pixel-level segmentation for food images. We further provide a benchmark of five state-of-the-art segmentation methods for this dataset. The evaluation results show the characteristics of different methods, and provide insights into how to improve segmentation performance. Overview of the Benchmark Food segmentation differs from general image segmentation in that the former often requires a fine-grained and per-class segmentation, while the latter usually focuses on global image segmentation into few classes (e.g., foreground vs. background). Some recent works on food image segmentation usually make an assumption that the food lies in the foreground, and segment the image into two classes: food vs. background. This assumption may not hold true in some situations. In this work, we define nine semantic classes, including seven food classes and two background classes. The seven food classes are "Background", "Appetizer", "Beverage", "Dessert", "Main Course", "Sides", and "Utensils". The two background classes are "Tabletop" and "Plates". An example is shown in Figure 1. We segment each image into these nine classes. We search for existing food image segmentation datasets. There are some
We propose a Bayesian logistic shape model (LSM) for image segmentation based on a latent variable model that we refer to as the conical LSM. The conical LSM is a variation of the standard LSM in which each class is described by a conical region, thereby allowing for spatial variation in the classification likelihoods. We propose a practical inference algorithm for the conical LSM based on a reversible jump MCMC algorithm that allows us to borrow strength across images and models. We apply our method to the segmentation of cochlea images. Experimentally, we demonstrate that our method yields more accurate segmentations at a lower computational cost than state-of-the-art methods.
We propose a Bayesian approach for logistic shape model inference, characterized by a joint prior distribution on the shape parameters and the inclusion of a Baysian marginalization strategy in the inference algorithm. The proposed approach readily incorporates prior knowledge in the form of covariates, in this case anatomical knowledge of the cochlea, in the estimation process. This is a significant improvement on existing methods which mainly rely on a priori fixed covariates. We illustrate the approach in the context of segmenting the cochlea from MR images.
We present a new active contour model for image segmentation based on a generalized asymmetric dual-front approach. In this model, the interface is described by two fronts, one for the exterior and one for the interior of the object, which move simultaneously toward each other or away from each other depending on the local gradient direction. The front that is inside the evolving contour is always faster than the outside front. This feature imposes a strong constraint on the contour evolution, resulting in a bias toward the formation of a global contour that is closed and does not leak out of the object boundary. An important advantage of the proposed method is that it is very fast and easy to implement because it only involves a simple calculation of the gradient of the image and a marching process in the gradient direction. Experimental results on several segmentation benchmarks show the efficiency of the proposed approach compared with state-of-the-art active contour models.
We present a new active contour model for image segmentation, which incorporates a new energy term that variationally forces the contour toward a generalized asymmetric dual-front configuration. This model naturally handles occlusions and generates smooth contours, as demonstrated on several images. The computational scheme is also efficient, and based on a dynamic programming scheme for calculating the gradient of the energy function. The proposed method is compared to several state-of-the-art active contour models on a standard image segmentation benchmark, and experimental results show the advantages of our approach.
Recent works usually enhance the performance of semantic segmentation models mainly in two ways: (i) increase the complexity of the model, e.g., designing more powerful CNN architectures, or (ii) utilize more training data. However, these methods usually lead to a significantly increased computational cost which limits their applications on mobile devices or for real-time applications. In this work, we try to revisit the BiSeNet, a well-designed lightweight model for semantic segmentation, to make it better suit for real-time applications. Specifically, we propose a fast and lightweight semantic segmentation architecture by modifying the original BiSeNet in four major ways: (i) we remove the redundant skip connections in the original model to save computational cost, (ii) we introduce an adaptive instance normalization mechanism to adaptively adjust the channel numbers of the outputs of the Atrous Spatial Pyramid (ASP) blocks, (iii) we remove the ASP blocks in the original model and replace them with a single ASP block with a channel number determined by the adaptive instance normalization mechanism, and (iv) we remove the concatenation layers in the original model and directly stack the deep features and the shallow features as input of the final conv layers. The proposed method is thoroughly evaluated on four popular semantic segmentation benchmarks, i.e., NYUv2, NYUv2-360, Cityscapes and ACDC, and promising results are achieved.
Generative Models are typically trained under strong assumptions: 3D object categories are assumed to have a large number of object instances, and those instances are assumed to be ordered, e.g., sorted by their horizontal pose. We question these assumptions in the context of arranging object instances in a horizontal strip: How many instances can be recovered, if at all, when there are no ordering constraints? If ordering is imposed, how much does it help, and how much supervision is required? We investigate the limits of generative modeling under various supervisory signals, ranging from ordering constraints (e.g., horizontal pose) to no supervision at all. Our analysis reveals that while fully-supervised models perform well when the number of instances is large, they struggle when the number of instances is small or when the instances are even partially ordered. In contrast, our proposed method, GENESIS-V2, which does not rely on iterative refinement, performs consistently across all settings, often outperforming the state-of-the-art.
Generative Modeling of Objects Sold on eBay has attracted increasing interest, with many datasets and models proposed for this task. There has been a surprising lack of evaluation of these methods on the task they are intended to solve - predicting the sale price of an object given its image. Furthermore, inference speed (time to generate a conditioning vector given an input image) and the size of the model are factors that would affect the usability of these methods in a retrieval-based indexing system. We propose a novel approach, Gen-V2, to the generation of fixed-length vectors for objects shown in images. When quantizing the output of a well-trained Gen-V2 network, we achieve a top-5 retrieval accuracy of 84.4%, with an inference speed of 4.4 seconds per object on a single CPU, and a model size of less than 1.7GB in RAM. When evaluating on a dataset of objects with associated sale prices from eBay, our model achieves a 0.49% increase in accuracy over the previous state-of-the-art.
Recent works on semantic segmentation have achieved remarkable performance on standard benchmarks, but most lack the ability to generalize to unseen domains. In this paper, we investigate the use of generative models, namely Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), for producing more robust feature representations for semantic segmentation. We propose a semi-supervised approach where a GAN is trained to synthesize training samples in the target domain, and show that this leads to improved performance and robustness. To effectively utilize the limited labeled data in each target domain, we propose a novel consistency loss that enforces the segmentation model to be robust to variations in the unlabeled images, as well as a domain-adversarial loss that explicitly trains the model to recognize differences between domains. When tested on the Cityscapes dataset, our approach yields meaningful improvements in segmentation quality and out-of-domain robustness, even with no target-domain labels. We further demonstrate the generalization capability of our approach on two different datasets: a synthetic dataset rendered from a 3D city model and a real-world dataset captured by an autonomous driving car.
Polyp localisation in Computed Tomography (CT) colonography is a challenging image processing task. In this paper, we propose a new approach for polyp localisation based on ensemble learning and particle swarm optimisation (PSO). The ensemble learning is based on classifier prediction confidence, and the PSO is used for comprehensive learning. The proposed approach is evaluated on a public dataset, and the results show that it outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches. The proposed approach is also shown to be robust to variations in the input data and the number of classes in the dataset.
Polyp localisation in Computed Tomography (CT) colonography is an active research field, aiming to assist physicians in the early detection of colorectal cancer. Various approaches have been proposed for polyp detection and localisation, with Deep Learning (DL) having shown promising results. However, existing DL-based methods can still be improved, particularly in terms of precision and robustness. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for polyp localisation based on Ensemble Learning (EL) and Comprehensive Learning Particle Swarm Optimisation (CLPSO). The proposed method utilizes a combination of classifier prediction confidence and EL to improve the accuracy of polyp detection and localisation. CLPSO is employed to optimize the hyperparameters of the EL framework, leading to improved performance. The experimental results show that the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of both Polyp Localisation Accuracy (PLA) and True Positive Rate (TPR) on the CRC-ID2017 dataset, marking a promising step towards more accurate and robust polyp detection and localisation in CT colonography.
Abstract: Pneumothorax is a common medical condition in which air leaks into the space between a patient's lungs and chest wall. It can be challenging to identify pneumothorax in medical images, as it can take on many shapes and sizes, and appear near other structures such as the heart and lungs. In this paper, we present a method for the automatic segmentation of pneumothorax in medical images using deep learning. Our method uses a U-Net architecture, trained on a large dataset of annotated images, to learn a robust feature representation for pneumothorax segmentation. We evaluate our method on a separate test set, and show that it outperforms existing methods in terms of accuracy and speed. Our method has the potential to be a valuable tool for the diagnosis and treatment of pneumothorax, and may also be useful for other medical image segmentation tasks. Here is a 250-word summary of the paper: The paper presents a method for the automatic segmentation of pneumothorax, a medical condition in which air leaks into the space between the lungs and the chest wall, in medical images using deep learning. The goal of the paper is to develop a robust and accurate method for the segmentation of pneumothorax, which can assist in the diagnosis and treatment of the condition. The method uses a U-Net architecture, which has been successfully used for other medical image segmentation tasks. The U-Net is trained on a large dataset of annotated images, which helps it to learn a robust feature
Abstract: Pneumothorax is a common medical condition where air leaks into the space between a patient's lungs and chest wall. It can be challenging to identify this condition in its early stages, as the visual signs are often faint and easily missed by human experts. This work presents a novel method of using deep learning image segmentation to predict pneumothorax. Our method utilizes a fully-connected neural network coupled with a shallow feedforward neural network to produce a final segmentation. We show that our method is effective in detecting pneumothorax, even when the visual signs are faint and challenging to identify. Our method could be used as a tool to help human experts in the diagnosis of this condition, potentially leading to earlier detection and treatment. Highlights: Our method utilizes a novel combination of a fully-connected neural network and a shallow feedforward neural network for image segmentation. We show that our method is effective in detecting pneumothorax, even when the visual signs are faint and easily missed by human experts. Our method could serve as a tool to help human experts in the diagnosis of this condition, potentially leading to earlier detection and treatment. https://www.mdpi.com/1999-4915/12/2/193
Recent advances in segmentation algorithms have shown that the use of attention mechanisms within convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can improve performance. In this work, we propose a novel architecture for biomedical image segmentation, called Feedback Attention Network (FANet). FANet incorporates an attention mechanism that utilizes both bottom-up and top-down attention, whilst also including a feedback loop from the attention module to the encoder. This unique combination improves performance by focusing on relevant image regions and leveraging global information for disambiguating between similar tissue types. We evaluate FANet on three publicly available datasets of different modalities (MRI, CT, and histology), in which we achieve state-of-the-art performance. Code is available at https://github.com/CCRALAB/fanet.
Recent advances in biomedical imaging technologies have resulted in a flood of digital images, posing a significant challenge for accurate and efficient image analysis. This paper introduces a Feedback Attention Network (FANet), a novel deep learning architecture designed specifically for biomedical image segmentation. FANet incorporates attention mechanisms in a feedback loop, allowing the network to selectively focus on relevant information and adapt to varying image characteristics. This approach is particularly effective in tackling the challenges of morphological variability, intensity variations, and image noise commonly found in biomedical images. We demonstrate the efficacy of FANet on three different datasets: semantic segmentation of neuronal structures in electron microscopic images of the mouse brain, cell segmentation in fluorescent images of immunohistochemically stained human tissue samples, and tumor segmentation in CT scans of the lung. In all cases, FANet significantly improves upon the state-of-the-art.
Few-shot segmentation is a challenging problem in which the goal is to segment new classes given only a few training examples. In this paper, we propose a self-guided learning approach with an adaptive similarity metric learning module to address this problem. Specifically, we learn a similarity metric adapted to the few-shot segmentation by minimizing the divergence between the predicted and ground truth segmentations. Furthermore, we explore the connection between the few-shot segmentation and the well-studied image segmentation problem with a large number of labeled images and show that the latter can provide valuable information for the former. We propose a cross-guided learning approach to exploit the information from the well-studied problem and integrate it into the self-guided learning framework. The proposed methods are evaluated on the popular Cityscapes and Mapillary Vistas datasets, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approaches.
We present a fully convolutional network that learns to segment objects in images, given only sparse scribbles as input. The network uses multi-scale adversarial attention gates to aggregate information provided by the scribbles across multiple scales, while focusing on the regions most relevant for segmentation. We introduce a novel loss function that trains the network to predict object masks directly, without the need for post-processing steps such as graph cuts. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the public Scribble Reconition Benchmark (SRB), achieving state-of-the-art performance. Code is available at https://github.com/ankitsharma008/scribble-segmentation.
We introduce a new weakly-supervised learning paradigm for segmentation. Given a set of image-level labels, our goal is to learn a segmentation model that predicts pixel-level labels. We propose to use scribbles from a labeler to create a weakly-supervised training signal, and show that an attention mechanism using multi-scale adversarial learning can use this signal to learn a dense segmentation model. We perform experiments on the VOC2012 and ACDC datasets, and show that our approach compares favorably with existing state-of-the-art methods that use substantially more labeled data.
Deep learning has become a popular method for image segmentation, but it suffers from a lack of understanding. We propose a novel approach to image segmentation using deep neural networks that learn meta-structures in the input image to aid in segmentation. Our approach is based on the observation that deep neural networks can learn to detect and utilize subtle patterns in the input image, which can be used for segmentation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on fluorescence microscopy images, which contain complex and subtle structures that are challenging to segment using traditional methods. Our results show that our approach can achieve state-of-the-art performance in image segmentation, while providing insights into the decision-making process of the neural network. Our approach can be useful for segmenting other types of images, such as medical images and satellite images, which often contain complex and subtle structures that are challenging to segment using traditional methods. Additionally, our approach can be used to understand the decision-making process of deep neural networks, which can help to improve their performance and interpretability.
Deep learning algorithms have enabled recent breakthroughs in image segmentation, but these successes have largely come at the cost of increased computational complexity and reliance on large amounts of labeled training data. In this paper, we study the problem of segmenting fluorescent microscopy images, which has been a mainstay of biological research for decades, and explore a data-efficient approach to address this problem. We find that state-of-the-art deep learning models are not suitable for segmenting such images due to the lack of training data and the highly specific nature of the problem, and that it is necessary to rely on domain expertise to gain an advantage in this task. To leverage this domain expertise, we propose a new approach for segmenting fluorescent microscopy images based on meta-learning, which enables the transfer of segmentation knowledge from one image to the next in an unsupervised manner. Our approach performs competitively with state-of-the-art methods while requiring significantly less computational resources. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on both a public dataset and a private dataset of neuronal traces.
Recent progress in deep learning has propelled medical image segmentation towards a fully automated pipeline, however, most approaches rely on large amounts of manually annotated training data. This is especially challenging in the domain of medical imaging, where expert annotation is expensive and time-consuming. In this paper, we tackle the problem of training a segmentation model from unsupervised learning, i.e., without relying on annotated examples. Our approach leverages a robust registration algorithm that aligns clinically acquired scans to a baseline atlas, and a contrastive loss that encourages the segmentation model to output consistent segmentations across the aligned images. We show that our approach is capable of learning representations that are highly transferable to a variety of segmentation tasks, and moreover, that the use of contrastive learning significantly improves generalization performance. We evaluate our approach on multi-atlas based segmentation and on per-patient segmentation without any atlas, demonstrating state-of-the-art performance on the ISLES 2017 challenge and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset.
We present a novel framework for unsupervised segmentation of medical images. Our method leverages the inherent spatial regularity of anatomical structures and uses a registration framework to compare the intensity distribution of structures in the target image to a library of source images. We use a similarity measure based on a quarternion-based registration technique to compare the library source images to the target image. Segmentation is performed by integrating a geodesic shotgun algorithm along the direction of highest similarity. This framework does not require any segmentation a-priori on the library images and is therefore suitable for fully unsupervised segmentation. We show that geodesic shotgun with integration along the direction of highest similarity performs better than a geodesic shotgun algorithm without any integration and therefore benefits from the registration framework. We evaluate our method on synthetically generated data and abdominal CTs, and show that it performs competitively with state-of-the-art unsupervised segmentation methods while being much faster.
Recent progress in deep learning has led to numerous successful applications, but most of these applications focus on confined datasets and trained models lacking generalization capability. In this paper, we tackle the problem of learning a deep neural network for food portion estimation with limited training data. We propose a method to leverage knowledge from a source domain with more training data (e.g., image segmentation) to adapt a pre-trained model to a target domain (i.e., food portion estimation) using few training samples. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on a public food portion estimation dataset, showing consistent performance improvement over the state-of-the-art. Our code and models are available at https://github.com/AI4FOOD-Foundation/CrossDomainFeatureAdaptation.
Distinctive appearance, arbitrary shape, and intensive intra-class variation of food in different dishes complicate the recognition of food portion in real-world scenarios. To tackle these challenges, in this paper, we exploit the cross-domain adaptation idea that facilitates the learning of a general feature representation from images in one domain (e.g., natural images) and adapts it to another domain (i.e., food images) to achieve effective food portion recognition. Specifically, we propose a Cross-Domain Feature Adaptation (CDFA) framework that comprises a feature extractor and an adapter. The feature extractor is pre-trained on ImageNet, which is then fine-tuned with a small number of food images. An adapter is designed to harness the knowledge in the pre-trained feature extractor and adapt it to the new domain. In this way, the adapted feature extractor can capture the distinctive appearance of food in various dishes. We evaluate our approach on three public food recognition datasets, i.e., Food101, Food50, and Fungible Goods. Comparative experiments with the state-of-the-art approaches validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Recent progress in medical image segmentation has largely been achieved by leveraging large institutional datasets. However, such efforts suffer from dataset heterogeneity, inhibiting the generalization of learned models across institutions and resulting in poor performance on datasets outside the training distribution. In this paper, we propose FedDG, a flexible framework for learning robust segmentors via federated domain generalization (FedDG). FedDG leverages episodic learning, a technique inspired by human cognitive learning, to model distributions in continuous frequency space. We demonstrate that our model can learn robust segmentors from only a few institutional contributions, resulting in improved performance on both in-distribution and out-of-distribution datasets. We showcase the efficacy of our approach on three public medical image segmentation benchmarks, yielding state-of-the-art performance with trained models that are over 200 times smaller. Code is available at https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FedDG.
Recent advances in medical imaging, particularly in imaging modalities with limited training data such as MRI, have motivated research in federated learning (FL) and transfer learning (TL). In this work, we tackle the problem of medical image segmentation under domain variance by drawing connections between FL and TL and proposing a new method called FedDG (Federated Domain Generalization). Given a dataset of medical images from different domains (e.g., different hospitals or institutions), FedDG aims to train a universal segmentation model that is capable of segmenting images from any domain while training all models at their own institutions, avoiding the need for data sharing while preserving privacy. To achieve this, we propose to use episodic learning (EL) to extract domain-invariant information from data in the continuous frequency space, which is adaptive to data distribution variations across different institutions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on segmenting prostate MRI images and achieve state-of-the-art performance in the presence of significant domain variance.
We present a semi-supervised segmentation framework that utilizes the dual-task consistency (DTC) loss, which aligns the hidden representations of a shared encoder across two tasks: image classification and segmentation. Benefitting from large amounts of unlabeled data and the powerful representations learned by the encoder, our approach shows robust performance on three challenging medical image segmentation tasks: abdominal CT, cardiac MRI, and brain tumor MRI. In particular, given a single fully-labeled image, our method achieves 42.0%, 56.4%, and 66.4% mean accuracy on the abdominal CT, cardiac MRI, and brain tumor MRI segmentation benchmarks, respectively, significantly outperforming the state-of-the-art.
We present a semi-supervised segmentation framework that utilizes the inherent spatial consistency of medical images. Given a limited amount of labeled training data, our approach leverages the available unlabeled examples via a semi-supervised loss that enforces labeled and unlabeled example consistency within a unified framework. We pose medical image segmentation as a dual-task learning problem, where the consistency among unlabeled examples is framed as a second task. This allows us to utilize the powerful semi-supervised loss in a manner that is directly applicable to anatomical image labeling, while avoiding costly data augmentation techniques. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on three different medical image segmentation datasets: ISLES, MIASICS, andaisawhl2018semi, where we achieve state-of-the-art performance on two of them.
Recent progress in deep learning greatly advanced biomedical image segmentation, but the trained models are hardly transferable to clinical settings, because the amount of manually annotated clinical data is scarce. We propose a category-centric prototype aligner to effectively align the source and target distributions in unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA), which is a key challenge in the application of deep learning to biomedical image segmentation. In the category-centric prototype aligner, we introduce a category-centric loss to align the data distributions of different categories in the source and target domains, and a prototype-centric loss to align the data distribution of prototypes in the source and target domains, and we optimize both of them jointly via a stacked progressive four-layer encoder-decoder network. In the encoder layer, we utilize a categorize-then-distribute mechanism to obtain category-centric and prototype-centric features. In the decoder layer, we utilize a category-centric prototype aligner to align the features of different categories and prototypes of the source domain to their counterparts in the target domain. We evaluate our method on the ISLES challenge 2019 dataset for liver and kidney segmentation, and achieve the best average precision and recall scores among the eight competing methods on both the source and target domains.
Deep learning models have achieved remarkable performance in semantic segmentation of images from different domains, such as natural and synthetic images. However, training such models on multiple domains becomes expensive when the amount of available labeled data is limited. In this work, we tackle the problem of unsupervised domain adaptation for semantic segmentation, where the goal is to utilize data from an unseen domain without using any labeled data. We propose a Category-Centric Prototype Aligner (CCPA) module that aligns the data of different domains in a category-specific manner, by learning a common feature representation via few-shot learning. Our proposed approach exhibits excellent performance in adapting segmentation models between different biomedical image domains, achieving 85.3% and 91.4% of the performance of a model trained on the target domain, on MR and CT lungs segmentation respectively.
Recent advances in deep learning have achieved remarkable performance in medical image segmentation, aiming to provide accurate segmentation results with minimal human effort. However, fully supervised learning still demands a significant amount of manually labeled training samples, which is difficult to obtain in the medical field due to the expertise and time required. In this paper, we conduct a comprehensive review of recent deep learning models that address the medical image segmentation task with limited supervision. We first categorize existing methods into three categories based on the level of supervision they require. Then, we discuss the deep learning models that have been applied to each category, including fully supervised learning, weakly supervised learning, and unsupervised learning. We also review the recently emerged few-shot learning approaches that are designed to segment new classes with only a few labeled examples. Next, we survey the state-of-the-art methods designed for specific medical image segmentation tasks, including neuronal tissue segmentation, tumor segmentation, and cardiac image segmentation. We also discuss the evaluation metrics commonly used in the field. Finally, we highlight the advantages and limitations of each approach and point out potential research directions.
Recent advances in deep learning have achieved tremendous success in medical image segmentation. However, these methods require large amounts of annotated training data, which are expensive to obtain. In this paper, we review recent progress in limited supervision segmentation, where the amount of training data is significantly reduced. We first introduce the problem setting and discuss the challenges of working with limited supervision. We then review the state-of-the-art deep learning models that have been applied to medical image segmentation with limited supervision. These models include segmentation via registration, transfer learning, knowledge transfer, and few-shot learning. We also discuss the evaluation metrics used to assess the performance of these models. Finally, we highlight the challenges and opportunities for future research in this field.
EMDS-5 is an ongoing project to create a large-scale dataset of microbial samples, which can be used for training and testing of machine learning algorithms for classification, segmentation, and detection tasks. The dataset is composed of microscopic images of microorganisms, including bacteria, fungi, and protozoa, as well as samples of non-living objects, such as dust and dirt. The images are manually annotated with labels at the pixel level, and the dataset is designed to be challenging for machine learning algorithms, with a high level of variability in the appearance of the microorganisms, and a large number of classes and instances. This paper describes the creation of the EMDS-5 dataset and the challenges associated with its creation, and it presents a set of baseline results for several image analysis tasks. We hope that the EMDS-5 dataset will be a useful resource for the machine learning and microbiology communities, and will help to advance the state of the art in the analysis of microscopic images of microorganisms.
EMDS-5 is an ongoing project to create a large-scale dataset of microscopic images of microorganisms, usable for training and evaluation of machine learning models for automated identification and classification. This fifth version contains 13,163 images of 11 different types of microorganisms, each image being labeled with its corresponding type. The images were collected from multiple sources, including online databases, academic papers, and direct contributions from researchers. The dataset is divided into a training set (80% of the images) and a test set (20% of the images), and can be used for multiple image analysis tasks, such as image classification, segmentation, and feature extraction. The dataset is available in the TensorFlow format, and can be downloaded from the project's GitHub page.
Abstract: We propose a real-time predictive maintenance platform for business vehicles using a 3D printer. The platform consists of multiple sensors that monitor the state of the vehicle in real-time. This data is then transferred to the platform's cloud system, where machine learning algorithms are used to analyze the data and make predictions about the vehicle's future performance. If an issue is predicted, the platform can automatically create a 3D model of the part needed and print it using the vehicle's onboard 3D printer. The platform was tested on a fleet of vehicles and was shown to be effective in predicting and preventing issues, resulting in reduced maintenance costs and improved vehicle uptime. We propose to use a cloud-based approach to handle the massive amounts of data collected from the sensors. Our machine learning algorithms will be trained on a large dataset of vehicle data to learn the patterns and relationships between different variables. The predictions will be made based on real-time data from the vehicle and the learned patterns. If an issue is predicted, a 3D model of the part needed will be created and printed using a 3D printer. The printed part will then be installed on the vehicle to fix the issue. The platform has been tested on a small fleet of vehicles and has been shown to be effective in predicting and preventing issues. The platform's machine learning algorithms were able to learn the patterns in the vehicle data and make accurate predictions about future issues.
We introduce a new estimator, called Fuzzy Differences-in-Differences (FDI), to estimate the treatment effect of a continuous variable using a fuzzy set theory approach. This allows us to relax the strict assumption of no treatment heterogeneity and continuous treatment effect, which is common in the existing difference-in-differences (DID) literature, and yet control the bias due to the endogeneity of treatment. In particular, we allow for a general fuzzy definition of the treated and control groups, and we estimate the treatment effect using a linear regression model with fuzzy treatments and controls. We establish the identifying assumption and the asymptotic properties of the FDI estimator, and we compare it with the standard DID estimator using a simulation study. We apply the new method to the empirical analysis of the effect of the minimum wage on the earnings of workers in Taiwan.
We introduce a new estimation method for the differences-in-differences model that relies on fuzzy sets to model unobserved counterfactual scenarios. We show that the fuzzy differences-in-differences model is a generalization of both the standard differences-in-differences model and the recently proposed randomization-based estimator of difference-in-differences. Unlike these standard models, however, the fuzzy model is capable of producing meaningful estimates in the presence of unobserved confounders. We apply this method to estimate the effects of enlisting in the National Guard on subsequent educational attainment, and find that the National Guard increases the rate of college enrollment and completion.
The dynamics of electrons in semiconductors is a fundamental issue that has been the subject of numerous studies. In this paper, we present a new approach to studying the dynamics of electrons in crystalline semiconductors. This approach is based on the solution of the Schrödinger equation for the electron wave function. The solution of this equation is found to be in good agreement with the results of experimental studies of the dynamics of electrons in crystalline semiconductors. We also compare our results with the results of other approaches to the study of electron dynamics in semiconductors. In addition, we examine the effects of various factors on the dynamics of electrons in these materials.
We propose a new method to study the stability of toric manifolds using algebraic geometry. Given a toric manifold M defined by a fan Σ in a vector space over the complex numbers, we associate to it another toric manifold N whose fan is the reflexive cone of Σ. We show that if Σ is primitive, i.e. Σ is not properly contained in any other fan defining the same manifold M, then N is minimal among the toric manifolds defined by Σ. Furthermore, if M is of dimension 3, or if M is of dimension 4 and the fan Σ is smooth, then N is semi-stable. If in addition M is Fano, N is stable. We also show that the algebro-geometric invariant relative to M and N, defined as the exponent of the ideal of N in the ideal of M, is equal to one if M is Fano and dim M = 3, and otherwise is at most equal to two.
We propose a new method to measure the stability of toric manifolds using an algebro-geometric invariant BC₂₇₂ associated to any projective variety X. This functional is defined by counting the number of moduli for a fixed generalized adjoint variety DG(X)⁰. Application of our invariant to toric manifolds shows that it is a good measure for stability, in the sense that if M is a toric manifold and PM is a principal bundle over M with a connection having holonomy contained in ℋ², then BC₂₇₂(M) ≤ BC₂₇₂(PM) + BC₂₇₂(ℋ²). This implies in particular that BC₂₇₂ is either infinite or equivalently, it is not bounded above for any sequence (Mₙ) of stable toric manifolds. Also, we prove that if M is a compact toric manifold and if ¹(M) is the algorithmic invariant proposed by Donaldson in his celebrated h-principle, then BC₂₇₂(M) ≥ ¹(M). As an application of our method, we give a new and very simple proof of the Abundance Conjecture for toric manifolds.
We present a new method for rapid, three-dimensional, quantitative phase imaging of microscopic samples that uses active illumination from a digital micromirror device (DMD). The DMD is used to project a fringe pattern onto a specimen, and the resulting phase shift is measured with a CCD camera. By varying the fringe pattern in time, we can obtain quantitative phase images for a wide field of view and a large volume of the sample. We demonstrate the performance of our method on microscopic imaging of biological specimens.
We present a new method for rapid phase imaging of isolated transparent specimens using a digital micromirror device (DMD). The DMD is used to project a spatial light modulator onto the specimen creating controllable, arbitrary wavefronts that propagate to a microscope objective. These wavefronts are scanned in two dimensions to create a unique diffraction pattern for each pixel on the specimen. These diffraction patterns are then collected on a digital camera and processed to recover both the amplitude and phase of the wavefronts. We demonstrate the resolution and accuracy of the phase images by measuring a calibrated diffractive optical element. We also demonstrate the ability to create customized phase profiles to image specific features of a specimen. Finally, we show that by choosing the appropriate customized phase profile, the refractive index of specimens as small as 100 μm×100 μm×100 μm can be accurately recovered from more than one hour of DMD exposure time, limited by the camera's readout noise.
We consider the complexity of finding a strategy for one player in the class of (weighted) parity games, i.e., games where each state is labeled with a weight, and the winning conditions are based on the weights. We study two problems: In the Cost-Price-Leader (CPL) problem, one player wants to minimize the sum of weights of the states visited, while the other player wants to maximize the difference between the sum of weights on one side and a given target sum. In the Relative-CPL (RCPL) problem, one player wants to minimize the ratio of the sum of weights of the states visited and a given upper bound, while the other player wants to maximize the difference between this ratio and 1. We show that deciding whether a player has a pure strategy that realizes a given lower bound in the CPL game is NP-hard, even if the game is weighted and the weights are integers, whereas it is fixed-parameter tractable with respect to the weight of the loser when the weights are integers, and with respect to the difference between the target sum and the actual sum of weights on the fields of one player, if the weights are integers bounded by a constant. On the other hand, we show that the RCPL problem can be solved in polynomial time, and we present an algorithm with a performance ratio of O(n^(5/2)) for the CPL problem, where n is the number of states.
We consider the complexity of finding a strategy of a player for a parity game with costs, that guarantees optimally small costs. We show that the problem of finding such a strategy is NPC for parity games without terminal sinks, but fixed-parameter tractable, if the game has a terminal sink. In the latter case, we present an algorithm that computes such a strategy in time linear in the cost of the game and the number of moves. Additionally, we present a parameterized algorithm that computes a strategy for the above problem in time doubly-exponential in the depth of a game tree, if the optimal cost of a strategy is bounded by a constant.
We present a new algorithm for estimating the latent block model of hierarchical structure, where each node in the graph can be part of multiple clusters, that improves the state of the art in terms of speed and consistency. We achieve this by using the alternating direction method of multipliers to solve a regularized form of the optimization problem defined by the latent block model. We show that our algorithm is guaranteed to converge to a local minimum of the objective function, and we provide an approximation of the objective function that allows us to prove convergence of the objective function values to the global optimum. We compare our algorithm to the current state of the art algorithm for latent block models on both synthetic and real datasets, and show that our algorithm is much faster and more consistent, in the sense that it is less sensitive to the choice of parameters.
We introduce a new algorithm for the latent block model, a widely used statistical model in social network analysis. The algorithm efficiently computes the maximum likelihood estimate of the model parameters, and achieves convergence with a probability of at least 1 − 8 under general conditions. Moreover, the algorithm is shown to be consistently faster than the current state-of-the-art algorithm for the latent block model. The latent block model is a popular statistical model for social network data, where each individual in the network is represented as a node, and the edges are unweighted. The model assumes that the network is generated by dividing the individuals into k blocks, where each block represents a clique of the network, and then adding random edges between the blocks. The goal of the algorithm is to estimate the parameters of the model, such as the number of blocks and the assignment of each individual to a block. The algorithm uses a message-passing approach, where the individuals in each block exchange messages to converge on a common assignment. The algorithm is designed to be efficient, and to achieve convergence with a high probability under general conditions. It is shown to be consistently faster than the current state-of-the-art algorithm for the latent block model, which is based on a message-passing approach and uses a dynamic programming algorithm to compute the maximum likelihood estimate of the model parameters. The paper discusses the theoretical properties of the algorithm, and presents experimental results on real-world social network data
We find asymptotic expressions for the expected conditional entropy and for the expected number of bits needed to encode the outcome of a measurement, in the asymptotic regime where the number of preparations of a state chosen from a discrete probability distribution goes to infinity, while the number of measurements remains fixed. This provides an intuitive explanation for practical normalisation schemes for probability distributions, and in particular, for the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure, which is widely used in multiple testing. It also suggests a new type of normalisation, which we call hyper-normalisation, depending on the number of preparations. We analyse the experimental feasibility of hyper-normalisation by considering the particular case of a quantum system prepared in a state chosen from the quantum state tomography problem. We find that existing experimental techniques could allow for the realisation of a hyper-normalised preparation of a quantum state, and we discuss the advantages of this approach. This article may be used for non-commercial purposes in accordance With the arXiv licence.
We suggest a method to classify the probabilities of a discrete probability distribution in terms of normalization and conditioning. We show that every discrete probability distribution can be decomposed into a normalized and a conditioned distribution in a unique way, which we call hyper normalization and hyper conditioning. By establishing a one-to-one correspondence between discrete probability distributions and their normalized and conditioned versions, we show that our hyper conceptual framework provides a new theoretical basis for statistical inference, while preserving the appealing aspects of both the normalized and conditioned approaches in a unified and formal way. We explore in detail the properties of the proposed approach, and discuss relationships with existing methods for statistical inference, such as the maximum likelihood estimation and the Bayesian approach. Finally we demonstrate with an example the practical use of the proposed method.
We study the eigenvalues of non-Hermitian random matrices, whose elements are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random variables with finite fourth moments, using the method of hermitian reduction and linearization. We show that the eigenvalue distribution of a non-Hermitian random matrix can be related to that of a Hermitian matrix through a simple transformation in the case where the limit distribution is non-normal. This allows us to derive limit distributions of the eigenvalues of non-normal operators using the limit distributions of Hermitian random matrices available in the literature. Furthermore, we apply our method to the Brown measure of non-normal operators and show that the Brown measure can be expressed in terms of the eigenvalue distribution of a Hermitian random matrix. Our approach provides a new perspective for understanding the eigenvalues of non-Hermitian random matrices and the Brown measure of non-normal operators.
We study the bulk eigenvalues of non-Hermitian random matrices and non-normal operators, by means of the hermitian reduction and linearization method. This method simplifies considerably the analysis of the eigenvalues by reducing the problem to the study of a modified Hermitian random matrix model. We compute the distribution of the bulk eigenvalues for several ensembles of non-Hermitian random matrices, and characterize the domains of convergence of the hermitian reduction method. In particular, this method can be applied to unitary and orthogonal ensembles of random matrices, and to a larger class of non-normal operators. We also derive a relation between the Stieltjes transform of the Brown measure of a non-normal operator and the limiting distribution of its bulk eigenvalues. This relation shows that, unlike normal operators for which the Brown measure is always absolutely continuous, there exist non-normal operators with singular Brown measure.
We consider the problem of locating a minimum number of sensors in order to monitor a given domain, whose boundary is known. Sensors can detect whether an intruder is inside or outside the monitored domain; the exact location of the intruder is not known. It is assumed that sensors can be placed on a boundary of a domain but cannot be placed in the interior. The sensor location problem is formulated as a minimizing convex program. We introduce a new concavity result for convex programs, and use this to prove that an optimal solution to the sensor location problem has a simple form: it consists of placing the sensors on a smallest possible number of arcs, where each arc is centered at a corner of the domain. This allows a polynomial-time algorithm to find an optimal solution.
We consider the problem of locating a sensor in order to optimize a known statistical gain function. In many cases, the gain function can be written in the form of a linear equation. When this is true, the sensor location problem is easily solved by applying basic principles of linear algebra. When the gain function is not linear, but instead can be written as the sum of two or more linear functions, the sensor location problem can be solved by locating the sensors at the solutions to a set of linear equations. These equations are obtained by expressing the gain function as a series of maxima and minima, and demanding that the sensor locations be at the maxima. This approach can be used to solve the sensor location problem in three or more dimensions, for arbitrary probability distributions, and for arbitrary placement of the sensors.
We perform a detailed study of the cascade population inversion and four-wave mixing in 87Rb vapors within a fully quantitative framework. We calculate the emission spectrum and the conversion efficiency for different temperatures, atom numbers and resonant light powers. We show that the emission, predominantly directed along the axis of propagation of the driving laser, is produced by the spontaneous decay of the upper laser level, involving a four-wave mixing process. The analysis shows that this process is efficient provided that the inversion parameter ξ is larger than 10−2. We also derive a simple expression of the threshold of the emission in terms of the standard deviation of the atomic sample, showing that this threshold depends weakly on temperature and atom number.
We extend the stochastic block model, a popular statistical model for binary networks, to capture longitudinal networks, where relationships can change over time. Our approach leverages a latent class model formulation, allowing for correlation in network evolution, and a flexible covariate model. We propose a new inference algorithm based on the collapsed Gibbs sampler, which allows for efficient estimation of model parameters. We illustrate our method on both synthetic and real datasets, and find that it outperforms existing approaches in capturing the dynamics of longitudinal networks.
We consider the spherical symmetric Einstein-Vlasov system with a cosmological constant Λ, describing a steady state of collisionless particles, in the small redshift limit Λ → 0 of general relativity. We show that for any choice of the initial data, the evolution of the system converges, as Λ → 0, to the Newtonian limit of the Einstein-Vlasov system, described by the Vlasov-Poisson system, where the self-consistent gravitational potential is given by the Poisson equation, and the Vlasov equation is coupled to it via the Lorentz force. This result generalizes previous work on the small Λ limit of steady states of the Einstein-Vlasov system without a cosmological constant. We then use the Newtonian limit to study the stability of these steady states.
We consider the stability of steady states of the spherically symmetric Einstein-Vlasov system with cutoff, when scattering is neglected. These states can be used to model situations in which the particles that make up the fluid satisfy a relativistic Boltzmann equation with some sort of cutoff, for example to model particles that are confined within a finite region by a high gradient barrier or by a sudden expansion. Within this formalism, this analysis provides a model for the transience of such a barrier or the "freeze-out" of particles from an expanding system. We compute the small redshift (i.e. long time) limit of these models, and we prove a local stability result for this regime.
Human-Machine Networks (HMNs) have recently become of increasing interest across many disciplines, including sociology, computer science, and systems engineering. In this paper, we provide an overview of the emerging field of HMN research, as reflected in the recent literature across these disciplines. We begin by providing a concise definition of HMNs, and then identify and categorize the various relationships that appear to exist between humans and machines within these networks. We then present a general framework for understanding HMNs, comprising five dimensions: structure, behavior, interaction, evolution, and intelligence. Using this framework, we then survey the existing literature across various disciplines to identify key research questions, methodologies, and findings. Our primary contribution is therefore to provide a cross-disciplinary survey that highlights (1) the commonalities and differences in how HMNs are studied across disciplines, and (2) the key open questions that remain unanswered. Finally, we discuss potential avenues for future research that may help advance the field.
Human-Machine Networks (HMNs) refer to systems where computing machines are associated with human users in an intertwined fashion. In recent years, HMNs have become more pervasive, as they are increasingly used to model many socio-technical systems ranging from social networks to critical infrastructure such as transportation and energy systems. Understanding the dynamics of HMNs is critical from both a societal and engineering perspective. However, due to the cross-disciplinary nature of the problem, progress has been hampered by the lack of a common body of knowledge. In this survey, we provide a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art in the study of HMNs, with the aim of fostering discussions among researchers and practitioners from different domains. We first present a concise definition of HMNs and describe the various contexts in which they can be found. We then review the rich body of literature on HMNs from different perspectives, including control theory, social sciences, computer science, and operations research. We next discuss cross-disciplinary research opportunities and highlight open questions and possible research directions. Finally, we reflect on challenges arising from the multidisciplinary nature of the field.
Fast neutron detectors are essential for the characterization of nuclear data and have significant applications in nuclear security. In this work, we present a new approach to fast neutron tracking that utilizes an array of plastic scintillator detectors, each equipped with a single-photon avalanche diode readout. This approach offers distinct advantages in terms of cost, scalability, and portability. We present detailed characterization measurements of the plastic scintillator and diode, which demonstrate that they perform similarly to their liquid organic and photomultiplier tube counterparts, as well as a methodology for embedding the detectors in various materials. Using measurements obtained with embedded detectors, we present a reconstruction algorithm that utilizes a list-mode based approach to identify and track neutron trajectories in three dimensions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach using a series of tests with sources of various strengths and demonstrate its use in a large-scale experiment.
Fast neutron detectors are instrumental for the study of nuclear physics, the surveillance of nuclear reactors, and the protection from nuclear weapons. Many neutron detector configurations have been developed using different detectors and amplification mechanisms. We present a new type of neutron detector that tracks neutron positions using the directly measured charge ionization in a compact gaseous detector. A cylindrical drift chamber with an axial electric field and a center anode is immersed in a gas mixture. The anode collects the charges generated by ionizing particles, and a reconstruction of the particle's trajectory can be made. The system was tested with a homemade neutron source, and the charge collection was verified with a radioactive source. We present the design of the detector, the results of the tests, and the residual background of the detector.
Selection models with monotone weight functions in meta-analysis pose several interesting mathematical challenges, which become particularly acute when the selection process is sequential. We investigate selection models that can be described by a weighted average, where the weights are non-increasing functions of the selection probability. Such models occur in various applications, including systematic reviews in medicine, and have attractive theoretical features. We characterize the selection probabilities and the expected summary effect in both the fixed-effort and the random-effort models. In the fixed-effort model, we show that the selection probabilities converge to a limit distribution at the fastest possible rate, and that the expected summary effect is asymptotically normal. In the random-effort model, we derive the limiting distribution of the expected summary effect, showing that it is asymptotically normal under weak conditions on the effort distribution. Our results also provide a practical data-based method for estimating the relative selection probabilities of studies, which we illustrate with a simulation study
Selection models with monotone weight functions in meta-analysis assume that the selection probability of a study depends only on the direction of the effect. We present different selection models with monotone weight functions and provide conditions under which these models are identifiable. We demonstrate that adjustment for between-study heterogeneity may render the model unidentifiable, unless the between-study variation is sufficiently large. We recommend a method that is generally applicable and always identifiable. This method is similar to the trimmed mean (TM) and exploits the ranking of the studies according to the absolute value of the effect size. We recommend the use of a modified TM, termed TM$^+$, which is akin to the weighted mean and is applicable even when the between-study variation is not sufficiently large. An evaluation of the proposed method is conducted via a simulation study and the method is applied to a meta-analysis of abstinence rates in residential treatment.
We study the minimum rainbow and strong rainbow colorings of block graphs. A minimum rainbow coloring of a graph is a coloring in which each color appears in at least one vertex and no color appears in more than one block. Similarly, a strong rainbow coloring is a coloring in which each color appears in at most one block. We show that the minimum rainbow coloring of a block graph can be computed in polynomial time by solving a system of at most $O(\binom{k}{2})$ linear programs, where $k$ is the number of blocks and each linear program involves $O(n)$ variables, where $n$ is the number of vertices in the block graph. This leads to an $O(n\binom{k}{2})$ time algorithm for computing the strong rainbow coloring of a block graph. Previously, computing the strong rainbow coloring was an open problem. We also show that the strong rainbow coloring can be computed in $O(n^3\log k)$ time if the blocks are given in a tree structure with $O(n)$ edges.
We consider the minimum rainbow coloring and strong rainbow coloring of block graphs. We show that both problems are NP-hard even for block graphs with just two blocks, and that the strong rainbow coloring problem is also NP-hard when the block graph is a tree. Then, we propose an algorithm to compute the minimum rainbow coloring of a block graph, and we use this algorithm to obtain the minimum strong rainbow coloring as a special case. Finally, we include several polynomial time algorithms to compute the minimum strong rainbow coloring of some specific classes of block graphs.
We investigate the relationships between several notions of von Neumann regularity for modules over rings, namely Hilbert-Von Neumann regularity, concrete von Neumann regularity, and asymptotic von Neumann regularity. These concepts generalize the familiar notion of regularity for modules over commutative rings. We show that all three concepts are equivalent for modules over arbitrary rings, thereby providing confirmation for several previous results in the literature. In particular, we give a new and shorter proof for a key theorem of J. López and A. Tonolo.
We consider binary Tardos fingerprinting codes, where each file is encoded by several servers, each of which has a secret key. A receiver can decode the file if it gets enough encoded versions of it. We study various decoding strategies, both deterministic and probabilistic, and propose a joint decoding strategy, where the receivers can cooperate. In this context, we define a new concept of a "cooperative gain" which measures the decrease in the number of files that can be identified simultaneously by using the joint decoding strategy compared to the optimal decoding strategy for each receiver separately. We give an upper bound on the cooperative gain and show that the proposed joint decoding strategy achieves this upper bound for a wide range of parameters.
We consider binary Tardos fingerprinting codes, introduced in 2001, and study various geometric properties of these codes, which allow for a simplified decoding algorithm. In particular we show that any codeword in a Tardos code of dimension n and minimum distance d can be projected onto a hyperplane of dimension ϖ(n, d), where ϖ is an explicit function, resulting in a codeword of a Hamming code of dimension ϖ(n, d) and minimum distance √(d min ⁄ 2). This permits a decoding algorithm based on affinity propagation, for which we present an implementation with excellent performance. The resulting decoder performs optimally under the BP decoding threshold, above which there are no collisions, as confirmed by our simulations. Below the BP threshold our algorithm still performs well, but it does not provide any advantage over straightforward Hamming decoding. We also propose a modification of the Tardos construction yielding a new parameterization of the projective plane, and show that the resulting codes have good geometric properties.
Multiple input multiple output (MIMO) communication has received considerable attention in recent years, as it is capable of providing high spectral efficiency, as well as excellent resilience to multipath fading. However, the high complexity of maximizing the spectral efficiency under the influence of multipath fading when employing conventional binary phase shift keying (BPSK) or quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) modulations has limited the use of MIMO channels. Space shift keying (SSK), which is a novel form of modulation, has been shown to be capable of providing high spectral efficiency, while maintaining the low complexity needed to maximize the spectral efficiency under the influence of multipath fading. In this paper, we analyze and compare the performance of MIMO channels using BPSK, QAM, and SSK modulations. We show that, compared to BPSK and QAM, SSK can provide significantly better spectral efficiency, while maintaining the low complexity needed to maximize the spectral efficiency under the influence of multipath fading. Furthermore, we show that the performance of MIMO channels using SSK is very robust to changes in the channel conditions, and that the use of SSK can provide significant improvements in the energy efficiency of MIMO communication.
Multi-antenna systems, known as multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), have been recognized as a promising tool to combat spectrum scarcity and improve data rates. In this paper, we investigate the energy efficiency (EE) optimization for MIMO systems using space shift keying (SSK). We derive the exact expression of the average EE and discuss the effect of system parameters on the average EE. We also propose an algorithm to find the optimal number of antennas and the optimal modulation order that maximize the average EE. Our simulation results show that the proposed algorithm can achieve up to 30% improvement in EE compared to a system using a single antenna and 16-QAM modulation. The results also show that the number of antennas and the modulation order have a tradeoff between them in terms of EE. The proposed algorithm can find the optimal combination of these two parameters that maximizes EE.
Recent studies have discovered that cellular aging follows a non-linear course and shows a high degree of interdependence among neighboring cells. These findings suggest that cellular aging should be analyzed and possibly controlled via the complex network framework. In this article, we introduce a network model for cellular aging, which captures the main features of this process, and demonstrates the possibility of controlling the aging process via the network structure. Our model is based on an assumption that the progression of cellular aging is governed by the competition between two different kinds of signals: One is the accumulation of molecular damage, which is considered as the main driving force of cellular senescence; the other is the diffusion of rejuvenating factors generated by the cells in the neighborhood of the given cell. We find that the competition between damage accumulation and rejuvenating factor diffusion leads to a nontrivial network structure of cellular aging, and that the proposed model can describe various experimental findings on cellular aging, especially the non-linear and interdependent dynamics of cellular senescence.
The mitotic clock, the theory that cell division occurring approximately every 35 trips through the cell cycle is responsible for cellular aging and senescence, is a fundamental hypothesis in cell biology. Using a computational model, we investigated the mitotic clock hypothesis and found that the empirical data fitting is excellent if one allows for an aging factor that increases with the cumulative number of cell divisions. This finding suggests that the mitotic clock is a special case of a more general theory of cellular aging and suggests an interesting approach to studying the biological mechanism of cellular aging and its relation to cancer.
We introduce the notion of a diffeological coarse moduli space of stacks over manifolds, as a natural extension of the classical notion. Given a class of stacks with a fixed class of morphisms, we define a diffeological coarse moduli space as a certain kind of enriched functor from the category of this class of stacks to the category of diffeological spaces. We develop some theory of preexisting moduli spaces in order to show that, when certain conditions are fulfilled, the functor defining a diffeological coarse moduli space is represented by a classical coarse moduli space. As an application, we generalize the classical theory of moduli spaces of curves.
We study profinite complexes of curves, which consist of a disjoint union of finitely many copies of a fixed curve $C$, equipped with a finite set of automorphisms preserving the nodes, and we relate autoequivalences of the category of such complexes to automorphisms of $C$. We show that the automorphism group of a profinite complex of curves is always an anabelian profinite group. We then consider the moduli stack of profinite complexes of curves of a fixed genus, and show that its anabelian covering stacks have trivial autoequivalence groups.
We study profinite complexes of curves, which consist of a finite disjoint union of closed curves equipped with a complex structure on each component, a finite group action on the set of components, and an action of the profinite completion of the corresponding symmetric group on the set of complex structures. We show that such a complex defines a generalized complex, that is, a geometric object with a finite discrete group action, and we use this result to construct new examples of generalized complexes with interesting properties. We then study the automorphism groups of profinite complexes of curves, and show that they are always finite and computing them is related to solving several puzzles of combinatorics on words. In the last part of the paper, we use profinite complexes of curves to study moduli stacks of curves, and show that they have nice algebraic and topological properties, including a decomposition into shifted symplectic stacks, and the property that the topological automorphism group is always an anabelian profinite group.
We demonstrate a compact polarization entangled photon pair source based on a Sagnac interferometer, efficiently generating photon pairs in the telecom C-band with a broad wavelength tuning range and high stability. The source generates entangled photons in a wavelength range of 1427-1483 nm with a spectral width of 4.5 nm, which covers the entire telecom C-band. By fine-tuning the pump laser power and polarization controller settings, the pair generation efficiency can be tuned from 2.0 to over 6.0 pairs per pulse with a pump pulse energy of ≈400 μJ. The demonstrated source is compact and stable, opening up new opportunities for C-band quantum communication systems.
We generate polarization entangled photons in the telecom C-band with a Sagnac interferometer, pumped by a waveguidedCW laser at 405nm. The interferometer utilizes a 45° broadband polarizing beam splitter and two cascaded nonlinear waveguides, each based on a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide with a signal wavelength of 1550nm, as the nonlinear optical elements. With a pump power of ≈2.4 W, we generate up to ≈860 pairs/s of polarization entangled photons at a reconciliation efficiency of 41%, which is the highest yield reported in a Sagnac interferometer at this wavelength. The generated entangled photons have a wavelength spacing of ≈35nm, which is an inherent advantage of the Sagnac structure over a Michelson interferometer. Our result represents an important step toward the realization of a robust and manufacturable entangled photon source, based on nonlinear optics and waveguided pump, for quantum communication applications in the C-band.
We examine the solution to the Monty Hall problem, a famous probability puzzle, and explore what is mathematically required to solve it. We prove that the standard solution, based on probability theory, is incorrect. We then introduce a new solution, based on a simple principle of mathematical modelling, that correctly answers the question posed by the puzzle. Finally we show that the puzzle asks precisely the question that the new solution addresses, and we explore the extent to which the puzzle can be said to be a question about probability.
We claim that the Monty Hall problem is not a probability puzzle but rather a challenge in mathematical modelling. By mathematical modelling we mean the following: given a problem with uncertain, complicated truth, find a model that captures salient features of the truth, is simple to work with, and yields predictions that are accurate in practice. Consider the variant of the Monty Hall problem in which a contestant faces three doors, one with a car and two with goats. The contestant chooses a door. Then the host, who knows where the car is, opens one of the goat doors. He then asks the contestant if she wants to switch her choice to the remaining closed door. Mathematicians have long agreed that the contestant should switch doors. But confront a friend with the problem and ask her to solve it, and it is unlikely that she will arrive at the correct answer. In forming an intuition for the problem, people seem to fall into two groups. One group, like me, is inevitably confused by the problem, and fails to see the obvious answer. The other group, like my colleague Gary Miller, sees the answer immediately. Who is right? Given the inherent uncertainty in modelling human cognition, both groups could be right. The group that switches doors may well be making the optimal decision, since it has embraced a model that renders the best predictions about the true outcome. In a sense, the problem is not about probability at all, but about
We give a simplistic outlook on possible jet modification mechanisms over the next decade. We propose to classify these mechanisms into strong, electromagnetic, and weak jet modification, depending on the process involved in the modification of the jet. We discuss the pros and cons of different observation methods for different mechanisms. While neutrinos and non-photonic electrons represent unique probes, photon and charged-particle spectra can be affected by both the geometry and the physics of the interaction. We suggest that the study of the scattering of jet fragments, in a scenario where part of the medium remains confined, can provide insight into the Mach cone produced in the interaction, and present a simple model to quantify its effects. We further discuss the possibility of measuring the jet deformation radius from particle spectra in the far field and highlight observable differences between strong and electromagnetic jet modification.
A 0-1 matrix is a matrix with integer entries, where each entry is zero or one. In this note, we consider the probability that a 0-1 matrix picked from the uniform distribution has a permanent value larger than or equal to a given threshold. This probability is related to the 0-1 permanent touchability via threshold, a problem that has been widely studied in the past decade. We prove that the 0-1 permanent touchability via threshold is mathematically equivalent to a mysterious cluster expansion, which to the best of our knowledge has not been studied in the literature. This cluster expansion involves unexpected ingredients, such as formal power series in the dimension of the graph, that make the proof of the expansion highly non-trivial.
Let $\mathbb R_+$ denotes the set of all positive real numbers, $\mathbb R_{++}$ denotes the set of all positive real numbers with zero excluded, and $\mathbb R_{+-}$ denotes the set of all real numbers with positive values excluded. In the paper, we propose new definitions of exponential, hyperbolic and trigonometric functions on time scales for general real interval $[a, b]$, where $-\infty \leq a < b \leq +\infty$, based on the existence of solutions of a class of nonlinear differential equations on time scales. Furthermore, we study some basic properties of the proposed functions. Finally, we give examples to illustrate the applications of the proposed functions.
We study quantum-classical phase transition and quantum entanglement in an optical interferometer with one photon pulse excitation. By monitoring the visibility of interference pattern, we experimentally demonstrate that the system undergoes a phase transition from a quantum superposition state to a classical mixture state with increasing pulse area, in agreement with theoretical prediction. Furthermore, we observe a clear reduction of interference visibility due to quantum entanglement, confirming the indispensable role of quantum correlation in the quantum-classical phase transition. Our result demonstrates the feasibility of using linear optical interferometer as a versatile platform for investigating quantum-classical boundary and quantum entanglement dynamics.
We study quantum-classical phase transition and quantum critical behavior for a many-body system of mutually interacting photons in a cavity, described by a Hamiltonian that combines the quantized electromagnetic field and a classical pointer variable. The system undergoes a transition between quantum and classical regimes, where the pointer variable breaks the superposition of photonic number states, while the field remains coherent. Within the quantum regime, we determine the conditions for a quantum critical point with continuous or discrete spectra, and calculate the critical exponents. The critical behavior is governed by ultraviolet cavity fluctuations and coherent virtual photonic lifetimes. We analyze the scaling of the latter with system size, varying the cavity spectrum and considering finite temperatures, which can lead to exponential saturation of the critical amplitude. We propose and analyze an experimental scheme to observe the transition and critical behavior, based on homodyne detection of the field with a unbalanced beam splitter, and demonstrate that it allows for a clear signature of the phase transition, also revealing non-universal properties of the critical point.
We present a new type of rheological measurement of dry granular flows using an instrumented pin tumbler. In this device, a cylindrical bin is rotated with a constant speed, and a pin is attached to the center of the bottom of the bin. Granular material is placed in the bin, and as the bin rotates, the material is agitated and descends slowly toward the bottom. During this process, the structure of the material changes from an ordered stack of disks to a random state and then to an ordered state again as it passes through the bin. We measure the stress in the vertical direction as a function of the shear stress using load cells attached to the bin and the pin, respectively. The measured stress versus shear stress curves exhibit power-law dependence at high shear stresses, and the power-law exponents are equal to the average interparticle friction coefficient $\mu_I$, which is determined using a rotating disk device. This demonstrates a direct connection between the $\mu_I$-rheology and the rheology of dense granular flows.
We report rheological measurements of the viscosity versus shear rate curve for dry granular flows over a range of densities and initial geometries representative of geophysical fluid motions, avalanches, and mass-wasting events. Our apparatus consisted of a conical silo with transparent walls through which we performed controlled shear experiments on samples of crushed marble stored in a bin. We characterized the flow properties by measuring the bulk pressure and radial strain profiles in the silo as a function of the shear rate, and determined the effective viscosity, $\mu(I)$, which depends on both the flow geometry and the rate of deformation. We show that $\mu(I)$ is a useful quantitative measure of the flow resistance that unifies the effects of changing the flow rate and the initial geometry, and displays a non-monotonic dependence on both. At high deformation rates, $\mu(I)$ is a sensitive measure of the inefficiency of the flow, and shows the transition from pseudoplastic to dilatant behavior. At low rates, $\mu(I)$ reflects the effects of the conduit geometry and displays a broad minimum that we explain using a simple model of grain interactions. Our results suggest that granular flows can be optimized to decrease their resistance, and that $\mu(I)$ is a useful parameter for characterizing and comparing the rheology of dry granular flows in the laboratory and in nature.
This paper explores the relationship between Floer theory and reduced cohomology on open manifolds. Floer theory is a powerful tool for studying the topology of manifolds, and reduced cohomology is a cohomology theory that is particularly well-suited for studying the topology of open manifolds. The paper shows that the two theories are equivalent, in the sense that they compute the same cohomology groups for open manifolds. This result is particularly surprising because Floer theory is usually applied to closed manifolds, while reduced cohomology is usually applied to open manifolds. The paper also explores the relationship between Floer theory and the theory of manifolds with boundary, and shows that Floer theory can be used to compute the reduced cohomology groups of such manifolds.
Biofilms are dense microbial communities encapsulated in an extracellular matrix, which protects the cells from harsh environmental conditions and allows cells to enter dormancy. The microbial communities in biofilms are very different from planktonic cultures, which are suspended in liquid media. Microbial dormancy is a general term for the various strategies that microorganisms use to survive under adverse conditions. This thesis presents a novel model of microbial dormancy in biofilms and planktonic cultures, which could explain why some microorganisms remain dormant for long periods of time. This model could also help to understand how microorganisms in biofilms respond to environmental changes and how they recover from dormancy. The data also suggest that some microorganisms may be able to switch between different states of dormancy, depending on the environmental conditions. This model could help to develop new ways to control or eliminate harmful microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi, which can cause diseases and infections. These findings could have significant implications for various fields, including medicine, agriculture, and industry.
Biofilms are productive habitats that can accelerate nutrient assimilation and protect microorganisms from environmental insults, including antimicrobial agents. Besides the well-described benefits of biofilm life, its pace also presents drawbacks, such as increased residence times in transient phases, such as the planktonic-to-biofilm transition, and reduced gene expression. Many microorganisms can wait out unfavorable conditions in various forms of dormancy, including thermostasis, hypobiosis, and anabiosis. This review focuses on microbial dormancy in biofilms and planktonic cultures. We highlight the various models of microbial dormancy and their prevalence in biofilms versus planktonic cultures. We also explore the regulatory mechanisms that control entry and exit from dormancy in response to environmental cues. Throughout, we make comparisons between models of microbial dormancy in biofilms and planktonic cultures and discuss their potential implications on health, disease, and industry.
We report on spin-dependent transport through a silicon double quantum dot defined by epitaxial SiGe/Si heterostructures. A clear signature of Pauli spin blockade is observed in a low-temperature magnetotransport measurement. The spin blockade is attributed to the spin-dependent tunnel coupling between the quantum dots and the leads. By tuning the gate voltages, the tunnel coupling can be controlled, which leads to tunable spin blockade. The low-temperature behavior of the spin blockade is consistent with a model taking into account the spin-dependent tunnel coupling and the hyperfine interaction. The results demonstrate the feasibility of using silicon quantum dots to manipulate the spin degree of freedom of electrons, showing promise for spin-based quantum technologies.
We report on spin-dependent tunneling of heavy holes in a silicon double quantum dot. Electrical transport measurements performed for different orientations of the host crystal magnetic field reveal a clear sign of spin blocking. The spin blockade is attributed to the Pauli exclusion principle, which forbids two heavy holes to occupy the same quantum state in the singlet ground state of the double quantum dot. The observed effect represents clear experimental evidence for spin coherence and novel spin dynamics of heavy holes in silicon at cryogenic temperatures.
Recent work has shown that the human brain uses probabilistic body schema representations to plan and execute reaching movements in everyday life. These internal representations are inferred from incoming sensory information and guide the online selection of the most probable limb pose. Here we investigate the role of tactile feedback in the online estimation of body schema during aiming movements of the arm. In a virtual reality experiment, participants executed random reaching movements towards target locations with their right arm, while their left arm was immobilized. During the movements, we abruptly switched off the visual feedback and the participants had to rely on somatosensory feedback for continuing the movement. We find that the robustness of continuation after the visual interruption increases with the number of reached targets during the movement, indicating a learning effect. The analysis of reach kinematics and posture changes during the interruptions furthermore shows that the learned internal body representations are used for the online prediction of limb pose. Our results demonstrate that rich tactile information obtained during daily reaching movements is used to construct and update internal body representations, which are used to anticipate the sensory feedback and to plan reaching movements in uncertain environments.
Bayesian estimation of body schema is typically done through visual or proprioceptive information. In this work, we build on the concept of active touch, or tactile exploration to obtain new tactile information. We propose to use random exploration of the tactile space, i.e. touching random points in the tactile space, to drive the collection of new tactile information. We show that the use of random exploration yields higher accuracy on apropriate probabilistic bodies (with multimodal tactile distributions) compared to deterministic exploration (touching points following a predefined path). We build a probabilistic body schema by maximizing the likelihood of received tactil information and provide a learning rule to tune the tactile exploration. Finally we show that the use of random exploration significantly improves the estimation of the probabilistic body schema, albeit with a slight increase in variance.
Recent studies have shown that the evolution of collaboration among artists in the music industry follows the principles of evolving networks. Thanks to the development of information and communication technologies, new forms of collaboration have emerged, which are characterized by greater flexibility and creativity. These changes have a profound impact on the organizational structure of the music industry and on the relationships between artists and other industry stakeholders. In this paper, we analyze the network structure of the phonographic market, with a particular focus on the relationships between musicians. We show that the network exhibits a small-world characteristic, with musicians being closely connected and information flowing rapidly between them. We also identify a set of key musicians who act as information brokers between different groups of artists. Our analysis provides insights into the structure of the music industry and how it evolves over time. It also highlights the importance of collaboration and information exchange in the success of artists and the overall dynamics of the industry. We believe that our findings will be useful for artists, industry stakeholders, and policymakers in understanding the changing landscape of the music industry and in making informed decisions to support its growth and development.
Recent studies have shown that the dynamics of interactions among musicians sharing similarities in their musical characteristics (e.g., artists belonging to the same genre) are governed by scaling laws, which describe the statistical relationships among the number of artists, songs, and interactions among them. However, these studies have been limited to analyzing static networks of interactions, without considering the temporal dynamics of the underlying data generation process. We address this limitation by modeling the sequential adoption of musical influences as a continuous time Markov process on a network of artists. By means of this approach we uncover the presence of a universal scaling law relating the occurrence of collaborative events and the systemic risk of the underlying network. This result provides a quantitative description of how the historical trajectories of artistic influences determine the anatomy of the corresponding collaborative network, and sheds light on the universal mechanisms driving the emergence and evolution of collaborations in the creative sector.
Let G be a simple graph which is not a complete graph. We say that G is weakly threshold if for every partition of the vertex set of G into two equal sized subsets, either both subsets have a common neighbor, or both subsets are isolated in G. We show that every weakly threshold graph is determined by a threshold graph, i.e. a graph obtained from a complete graph by deleting some edges, and that this graph is unique up to isomorphism.
Let G be a simple graph which is not a complete graph. A classical result of C. Berge states that if H is a subgraph of G whose deletion from G results in a graph polynomial time solvable by Mixed-Integer Programming (MIP), then G has a vertex- colouring using at most ⌈|V(G)|/2⌉ colours, where ⌈⋅⌉ denotes the smallest integer greater than or equal to a given number. In this paper, we slightly improve this bound and show that if H is a subgraph of G whose deletion from G results in a graph MIP-solvable in polynomial time, then G has a vertex- colouring using at most ⌈|V(G)|/2⌉ + 1 colours. This generalizes a recent result of Dobson and van Melkebeek [DVD'13]. Our proof combines a potential function approach, which was used by Dobson and van Melkebeek, with the notion of measure polynomials recently introduced by Giaro,Mahajan and Patel [GRR'16].
We study kinematically boosted pairs produced in the nonlinear Breit-Wheeler process in small-angle laser collisions. In the head-on collision geometry, we solve the Dirac equation for the scattering wave function with proper account of the laser field. We obtain the analytical expressions of the scattering amplitude, the transition probability, and the distribution of the longitudinal momentum for the case of no initial population in the continuum state, which corresponds to the situation where the incident intensity is less than the threshold for the self-channeling or the tunneling ionization. We then evaluate the production probability as a function of the pair momentum for different initial populations of the continuum state. It is shown that the pair production can be boosted by the laser field, and the effect of the initial population of the continuum state on the pair momentum distribution is negligible for the case of the head-on collision.
We study kinematically boosted pairs produced in the collision of an intense laser beam with a thin foil target, exploring the binary-collision dynamics that result from the laser-driven strong-field multipolar atom optics. When the laser pulse's front rises over the target, atoms in the foil surface are accelerated, causing strong-field induced diffraction. These converging atomic beams collide, creating a temporal continuum of boosted pairs. Using molecular dynamics simulations, we calculate the rapidity distributions for the produced pairs for different collision parameters and show good agreement with a recently proposed theoretical model based on theBinary- Collision Approximation. We illustrate the sensitivity of the rapidity distributions to changes in the collision parameters, highlighting how specific models can be corroborated or ruled out based on the observed particle distributions.
We discuss aspects of the moduli space of D-branes in gauge theories living on Liouville and Toda domains. We show that branes can carry topological charge in these field theories, and that this observation can be used to derive lower bounds on the number of branes in an arbitrary gauge theory living on a Liouville or Toda domain. We also discuss the relation of our results to recent work on defects in gauge theories living on cones over higher-dimensional spheres.
We discuss aspects of brane dynamics in Coulomb and Born-Infeld branes in (2+1)-dimensional Liouville and Toda field theories with boundaries. We show how a reflection principle for branes can be used to construct various (conical) defect networks, and discuss a few examples. We find a class of defect networks which are conformal to a certain network of (Coulomb) defects living on the boundary. This surprisingly involves a suspension of the network living on the boundary, even though the brane tensions are related by modular invariant factors. We suspect that this can be explained by a duality to a network of BPS-branes in an IR finite gauge theory, non-canonically. We present a guess for the full non-canonical duality relating the two theories, and make some comments on possible checks.
Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of gallium nitride (GaN) quantum wells is used to fabricate a second-order nonlinear optical (SONLO) metamaterial with nanoscale modulation for efficient frequency conversion in the visible spectrum. A SONLO coefficient of ∼10 pm/V is obtained at the telecommunication C-band. This ALD-based SONLO metamaterial can be integrated into nanophotonic circuits in a complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor compatible process for on-chip nonlinear optical applications.
Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of gallium nitride (GaN) optical metamaterial (OMM) is demonstrated as a promising platform for second-order nonlinear optics (SONO) applications. By tailoring the ALD recipe, we achieve precise control of the film thickness down to ˜0.8 nm/cycle, resulting in high-quality GaN OMM thin films with epitaxial-like growth, a smooth surface, and precise thickness control. A hyperbolic metamaterial is designed and fabricated using the developed ALD process, demonstrating a negative refractive index with a figure of merit (FOM) of ˜4.4×10^4. By integrating the ALD GaN OMM with a nanophotonic cavity, we demonstrate a nanophotonic enhancement of the second-order nonlinear optical coefficient to ˜630 W−1·m−1, which is 2.3 times compared to that in bulk GaN. This work provides a feasible solution for integrated second-order nonlinear nanophotonic applications with CMOS compatibility.
Let us look at Euclid's algorithm as a procedure that takes as input two positive integers a and b and returns the positive integer g = gcd(a, b) = ax + by, where x and y are integers, with the property that g : a = x : b = y:a = 1. (These equalities are easy to verify.) Thus, Euclid's algorithm is a procedure for extracting gcds from pairs of positive integers. We consider Euclid's algorithm as a procedure that takes as input two positive integers a and b and returns a list of pairs of integers [x1, y1], [x2, y2], ..., [xn, yn], where xi and yi are integers, with the property that g = ax + by, where x = x1 + ... + xn and y = y1 + ... + yn, and g : a = x : b = y:a = 1. (These equalities are not so easy to verify, but are nevertheless true.) Thus, Euclid's algorithm is a procedure for extracting gcds from pairs of positive integers, but also has the nice property that the gcd can be extracted iteratively using only addition and subtraction. In this way, we may view Euclid's algorithm as a procedure for performing a finite sequence of Euclidean divisions. The purpose of this note is to make the above algorithm precise by establishing the following result. Let [a, b] denote the greatest common divisor of a and b. Let r and s be integers, and let n =
Let a and b be integers, and let their gcd be d = gcd(a, b). In this note we present two different algorithms for calculating d, and compare their performance. Both algorithms are based on the observation that at each step of the classical Euclidean algorithm, the remainder at the next step is approximately the same as the result of dividing the current value of b by d. This allows one to obtain d very fast, in particular, in elementary number theory, where a and b are bounded by a relatively small maximum value. One of the algorithms is a modification of the classical Euclidean algorithm, and the other is based on an observation due to Scholz. We implement these algorithms in Python, and include timings for a number of pairs of numbers, ranging from very small to very large. spacing omit-placement newline scalar-align permeated math-mode\ matrix\tex-math-default\ fraction\tex-math-itana\ stretch\[\=\textstyle\]\ baseline\(\=\textstyle\)\ array\[\#1\]\ allow\(\=\textstyle\)\ vertical-array\[\#1\]\ matrix\[eqarray\#1\]\ matrix\[\#1\ Wembley\]\ array\[\#1\]\ allow\(\=\textstyle\)\ vertical-array\[\#1\]\ -$$\ component\#1\ The first algorithm is very simple, and in fact is a modification of the classical Euclidean algorithm. It is based on the observation that at each step of the Euclidean algorithm, the remainder at the next step is always bounded by d. This allows one to obtain d very fast, in particular in elementary number theory, where a and b are bounded by a relatively small maximum value. We implement this algorithm in Python, and include timings for a number of pairs of numbers, ranging from very small to
We introduce a new characterization of the decidable separability between two languages by piecewise testable languages, which is a generalization of the recognizable separability to infinite languages. By using this characterization, we give a complete procedure for determining whether two piecewise testable languages are decidably separable, and show that the problem of decidable separability for piecewise testable languages is decidable, which extends the result for recognizable languages.
We introduce a new way of looking at the Turing Decidable languages, via a characterization based on piecewise testable languages. In particular, we show that a language L is Turing decidable if and only if L is the intersection of piecewise testable languages and has the finite-length property. This result gives another characterization of Turing decidable languages and moreover, gives a new perspective to approach this classical concept.
We study the ground and first excited states of the fractional Schrodinger equation in an infinite potential well, using a spectral method. The fractional Laplacian is discretized in space via the spectral element method, and the resulting nonlinear eigenvalue problem is solved via the Newton method. We employ the Chebyshev iteration to accelerate convergence. Our results show that the obtained states are closely related to the quantum states of the corresponding Schrodinger equation. This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 11671163) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (Grant No. 2018ZCQ-ZM033). ## **Abstract:** The Schrodinger equation with a fractional Laplacian describes the quantum dynamics of particles with positions in a continuum. In this paper, we study the ground and first excited states of the fractional Schrodinger equation in an infinite potential well, using a spectral method. The well is discretized in space via the spectral element method, and the resulting nonlinear eigenvalue problem is solved via the Newton method. We employ the Chebyshev iteration to accelerate convergence. Our results show that the obtained states are closely related to the quantum states of the corresponding Schrodinger equation. The method presented in this paper can be applied to solve other types of nonlinear eigenvalue problems. ## **Keywords:** Fractional Laplacian, spectral element method, infinite potential well, nonlinear eigenvalue problem, Chebyshev iteration.
Resources allocation aims to distribute limited resources efficiently among users to maximize the overall utility. In this paper, we consider the resource allocation problem for multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) radar with multiple targets for non-coherent localization. We propose a novel algorithm that allocates resources based on the channel gain and the location of the targets. The algorithm maximizes the overall probability of detection and localization of all targets by allocating resources to the strongest channel and distributing the remaining resources among the other channels. We also derive a lower bound on the probability of detection and localization for comparison. The simulation results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms the lower bound and other resource allocation strategies.
Resource allocation, namely, power and training length allocation, in MIMO radar with multiple targets for non-coherent localization is discussed. Through numerical results, we demonstrate the inefficiency of a constant resource allocation strategy, which assigns the same power and training length to all antennas, and show the importance of adaptive resource allocation. We then propose a resource allocation strategy that consists of three steps: 1) discovery of angular regions that are conducive for target localization; 2) prioritization of these angular regions in resource allocation; 3) allocation of resources in order of priority. The proposed strategy is shown to achieve higher detection probability and more accurate localization than the constant strategy for various scenarios through numerical results.
Let us introduce the notion of positive opetopic cardinal, meant as an analogue of measurable cardinals in the context of positive opetopes. We prove some properties of positive opetopic cardinals, giving in particular an analogue of the measurable cardinal assumption in the context of positive opetopes. Finally, we introduce the notion of positive opetopic set, giving also a sufficient condition for a positive opetopic set to have a positive opetopic cardinal.
Let us introduce the notion of positive opetopes of a given operad in a given finite ambient category. We define the associated positive opetopic cardinal function giving, for each integer n, the least number of cells in a positive opetope of order n. This generalizes the notion of opetopic cardinal introduced by the first two authors in [Guillot, Lazaro, and Rubinian, J. Math. Soc. Japan, 67(2015), no. 3, 907–940]. Next, we define the positive opetopic set, which is a generalization of the opetopic set introduced in [Guillot and Rubinian, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 370 (2018), no. 6, 4313–4342]. Its main property is that it contains all (small) positive opetopes of the given operad. Finally, we study the relations between these objects and we show in particular that the positive opetopic set is in bijection with the set of isomorphism classes of positive opetopes of order n, for each integer n.
We study the $O(n)$ loop model on random maps of arbitrary topologies. We prove a nested interval property (NIP) for uniformly distributed conformal loops which remains valid when refined. We show that the nested interval property implies an exact convergence result, and we derive an explicit expression for the correlation length of the model in terms of the loop exponent. Our main tool is a rigorous version of the overlap inequality which measures how the lengths of the intervals change when we refine the nested covering.
We consider the $O(n)$ loop model on random maps of arbitrary topologies. We show that the spanning forest of the map has a high probability to be nested, provided that the map is thin enough. We prove that, for every $\varepsilon>0$, if the edge density is smaller than $\varepsilon$, then with probability $1-o(1)$ the spanning forest is $\varepsilon$-nested. Moreover, we present a quantity, which we call the overlap, that is useful to measure how much the spanning forest is nested. We show that the overlap is close to $1$ with probability $1-o(1)$, provided that the edge density is smaller than $\varepsilon$, and compute its expected value when the edge density goes to $0$.
Let Ω be a smooth strictly convex domain in ∝n, and consider the initial-boundary value problem for the wave equation ∂tu − Δu = 0 in Ω ∪ νΩ with u = 0 on ∂Ω and ν−∂tu = 0 on ∂νΩ. We show that for a sufficiently smooth prescribing data, the solution u of this problem satisfies an energy equality, and satisfies a priori estimates only depending on the local geometry of Ω. This extends the previous result of the author in a forthcoming paper.
Let Ω ⊂ R^n be a strict convex domain with smooth boundary. We continue the study of dispersion for the wave equation inside Ω, namely the decay of the Fourier transform of the fundamental solution u_0, in L^2 ( (− ∞, τ ] , H^1_0 ( Ω ) ). Following the strategy developed in [BN, Chapter 6], and the partial results obtained in [BN2], we give the optimal decay, up to a constant, of u_0 ^ ( α ) , ∀ α ∈ ( 0, 2 ] . The proof uses only elementary spectral theory and complex analysis.
Academic biographies on Wikipedia undergo preferential editing, with notable professors more likely to have biographies than less notable ones, and with those biographies more likely to be of higher quality, according to a study published in the Journal of Documentation. These findings run counter to the notion of Wikipedia as a democratic encyclopedia and raise questions about the information found in the world's most popular reference work. The research team, from the University of Pittsburgh and Wikitonia, analyzed 7,634 academic biographies from the English-language Wikipedia on February 7, 2017, linking each subject to the highest-ranked institution with which they were associated and categorizing each subject by discipline. They then determined each subject's "notability" by whether or not they had their own academic biography on Wikipedia and calculated a "quality" score for each subject based on the average number of words in their biography and the average number of references linked to that biography. The researchers found that subjects associated with institutions ranked among the top 100 universities in the world were more likely to have a Wikipedia biography than those affiliated with institutions that rank outside the top 1000. A similar trend was observed in subjects who had earned a PhD or other doctoral degree and those who had not. Furthermore, of the subjects identified as holding a tenured or tenure-track position, those at top-ranked institutions were more likely to have a Wikipedia page than those at lower-ranked institutions. Overall, the researchers found that discipline was the only factor that
Academic prestige, especially as measured by university rankings, seems to be increasingly important for contemporary universities. Available data on academics is being increasingly exploited to provide rankings, using metrics like the h-index to quantify academic performance and prestige. We show that a crucial source of information used for these purposes, Wikipedia, is biased against certain academics in four ways. First, we show that there is an underrepresentation of women and people of color. Second, we show that there is a systematic bias in favor of academics from certain universities. Third, we show that there is a bias against academics in certain fields. Finally, we show that there is a bias against academics who do not have collaborators. We show in an exploratory fashion that a certain subset of these biases can be explained by features of how Wikipedia works; we discuss these findings in the context of potential solutions.
In this study, we present a comprehensive analysis of high-contrast grating reflectors for TM and TE polarizations, which are critical for vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) designs. We investigate the effects of various factors, such as grating period, grating thickness, and refractive index, on the reflection spectra and polarization states of the grating reflectors. Our results show that the grating period has a significant impact on the reflection spectra, while the grating thickness and refractive index have a more pronounced effect on the polarization states. We also find that the grating reflectors for TM and TE polarizations exhibit different characteristics, with the TM polarization showing a higher reflectivity and a more symmetric reflection spectrum. These findings provide valuable insights for designing high-contrast grating reflectors for VCSELs and highlight the importance of considering polarization states in such designs.
Understanding the polarization-dependent mirror characteristics is important for the design of vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs). We measure the reflectivity of gratings with various groove directions and periods, deposited on high-contrast grating (HCG) reflectors, for both transverse magnetic (TM) and transverse electric (TE) polarizations. Our results show that the groove direction has a large impact on the reflectivity and polarization extinction ratio (PER). A grooved- exorbitantly tilted (GET) HCG reflector exhibits TM-wave reflectivity as high as 35% and a PER as high as 26 dB, which are 7 dB and 12 dB improvements, respectively, over those of the blaze-angled HCG. We investigate the optical gain of VCSELs with a GET HCG reflector operating at a wavelength of 940 nm. A TE-polarized VCSEL with a GET HCG reflector can have a net gain as high as 10.5 dB.
Let \(\mathfrak{A} = (A,\leq,\lor,\land,\forall,\exists \,)\) be a strict Boolean algebra equipped with a commutative binary operation \( \land \) called multiplication, and \( \forall \) and \( \exists \) termed quantifiers. In this paper, we study the existence of free \( \omega \)-continuous algebras for certain classes of ordered algebras, namely \(\omega \)-continuous algebras \( \mathfrak{A} = (A,\leq,\lor,\land,\forall,\exists \,) \) with the multiplication \( \land \) being continuous in the \(\omega \)-context, i.e., \(\land\) is \( \omega \)-continuous. We show that there is a free \( \omega \)-continuous algebra for every \( \omega \)-continuous algebra with a countable number of atoms. However, there is no free \( \omega \)-continuous algebra for algebras with a finite number of atoms. For \(\omega \)-continuous regular algebras \( \mathfrak{A} = (A,\leq,\lor,\land,\forall,\exists \,) \) with the multiplication \( \land \) being regular in the \(\omega \)-context, i.e., \( \land \) is \( \omega \)-continuous and has a dense range, we show that the only existence of such free algebras is the Boolean algebra.
We continue the study of abelian subalgebras of two Banach algebras associated with a topological dynamical system, initiated in two previous papers. Let (T, X) be a topological dynamical system, where T : X -> X is a homeomorphism onto its compact convex hull X. Let H and K be two closed ideals of the Banach algebra B(X), the bounded operators on X. In our previous papers, we described the structure of H and K, under the assumption that H and K are abelian. Here, we obtain several results on the maximal abelian subalgebras of H and K. These results generalize and extend some known results in the literature. We also give some examples.
We introduce a new estimator for the intrinsic dimension of a finite collection of data points, induced by the Gaussian core model. This model captures the local geometry around a data point through a truncated multivariate normal distribution. The intrinsic dimension is the dimension of the smallest space in which the data can be embedded in such a way that each data point has a neighborhood that is an analog of the model. We show that our estimator is consistently estimated, and suggest an iterative algorithm to compute it. This algorithm is validated against synthetic data, and the model is applied to several real world data sets. In particular, we show that on the "Ising" model, the intrinsic dimension grows as the dimension of the ambient space grows.
We study the Gaussian core model in high dimensions. This model was introduced by Erdos andRenyi as a simple model for random subsets of the integers, and laterwas shown to exhibit a phase transition in the presence of a disorder strengthtuned to a critical value. We conduct a detailed numerical study of thismodel in dimensions ranging from 50 to 200, and observe a transition froma disorder-dominated phase to a phase where the average density of THENon-monotonicly increases with the disorder strength. In addition, we studythe probability distribution of the overlap between two independentsubsets, and observe a transition from a disordered to a orderedregime. Our results provide evidence for the existence of a noveldisorder-induced phase in high-dimensional finite fields.
In the last few years, the BaBar collaboration has measured the branching fractions and form factors of semileptonic $B$-meson decays with impressive precision. I will present the most recent results, including the first measurement of the weak charge of the $b$ quark, $|q_b|=(4.08\pm 0.14)\times 10^{-3}$. These results are consistent with the standard model, and some of them represent an improvement in precision by almost an order of magnitude.
We study the complexity of optimizing multicell coordinated beamforming with rate outage constraint, which maximizes the sum-rate of the network subject to a reliability requirement. We first present a polynomial time algorithm to solve this non-convex problem to global optimality when the number of users is equal to or larger than the number of base stations. This algorithm is based on a novel semi-definite programming (SDP) formulation of the problem, and on a block coordinate descent (BCD) method. Then, we propose a low-complexity greedy algorithm that achieves a near-optimal performance with significantly reduced computational complexity. The proposed greedy algorithm is based on a novel approximation of the optimal beamforming matrix, and on a thresholding technique that allows us to select the most beneficial users for cooperation. Finally, we present numerical results that illustrate the performance of the proposed algorithms in terms of sum-rate and outage probability, and that demonstrate the significant reduction in computational complexity achieved by the greedy algorithm.
The effect of bismuth (Bi) implantation on the electrical properties of amorphous selenium (a-Se) and tellurium (a-Te) films has been investigated. The a-Se and a-Te films were deposited by thermal evaporation in a vacuum chamber. The implantation of Bi was carried out at room temperature using an ion beam source. The electrical properties of the films were evaluated by measuring the current-voltage characteristics. The results show that the implantation of Bi significantly affects the electrical properties of a-Se and a-Te films. The conductivity of the implanted films increases significantly compared to that of the unimplanted films. This is attributed to the presence of Bi nanoparticles that act as additional charge carriers. The activation energy of the implanted films is found to be lower than that of the unimplanted films, indicating that the Bi nanoparticles facilitate the movement of charge carriers. The breakdown voltage of the implanted films is higher than that of the unimplanted films, suggesting that the Bi nanoparticles improve the stability of the films. The results of this study show that Bi implantation can be used to modify the electrical properties of a-Se and a-Te films and provide new opportunities for applications in thin-film transistors and photodetectors.
We study global relaxation of bistable solutions for a class of gradient systems in one unbounded spatial dimension. We show that, depending on the sign of the highest eigenvalue of the linearization matrix at a stable equilibrium, the relaxation either is fast (this occurs when the highest eigenvalue is negative) or slows down as t∼√(t), approaching a stable equilibrium (this occurs when the highest eigenvalue is positive). In the case of slow relaxation, we establish that the relaxation is always faster when the system is perturbed away from the equilibrium in a direction corresponding to an eigenvector associated with a positive eigenvalue. Finally, we present an example of a system for which the relaxation is as slow as t^{1/3}. The results are based on a priori estimates combined with numerical simulations.
Components from different providers can work together smoothly, enabling modular systems that are scalable, flexible, and reusable. However, in many cases, components from different providers must communicate asynchronously because of the lack of a global clock or a common ready-signal. Unfortunately, asynchronous communication poses challenges to compatibility: a component can become ready to deliver a response before it has received all requests from the provider, or it can receive requests in a different order from their original sending order at the provider. We introduce a simple formal model of compatibility for asynchronous communication and present an algorithm to check compatibility of components. Our contributions are applicable to any setting in which components from different providers need to communicate asynchronously, independently of the programming model. We have implemented our approach in the form of a tool and applied it to several case studies from the CloudBus ecosystem.
We present a framework for comparing the performance of asynchronously and synchronously communicating finite-state machines. The framework is inspired by the actor model of concurrent computation, and formalized as a temporal logic, called (), which is based on extended linear time temporal logic (ELTTL). We show that the logical formulation of asynchronous communication in is simpler than that of synchronous communication, and that this correspondence reflects differences in the computational power of the two models. The framework is implemented in the Leeds orchestration toolkit (LOT), and the implementation verifies a number of known results, such as logarithmic speedup of selfishly programmed components, and optimal causality-respecting simulation between asynchronously and synchronously communicating components.
Let $\alpha$ and $\beta$ be positive integers. In this paper, we establish a recurrence formula for sums of powers modulo $m$ of the form $\sum_{i=1}^{n} \binom{i}{\alpha} \binom{n-i+\beta}{\beta} \pmod{m}$, where $m$ is a fixed positive integer. This formula generalizes and simplifies previously known results on binomial sums. Furthermore, we present a combinatorial interpretation of our main result in terms of paths in a dynamic allocation network. This new perspective might be useful for obtaining more results on binomial sums in the future.
Let ${\bf a}=\{a_1,\dots,a_m\}$ be a set of real numbers, and for $i=1,\dots,m$, let $r_i$ be the unique real number in $\{a_1,\dots,a_m\}$ which is repeated $i$ times. Denote by $S_{\bf a}$ the set of all possible summations of the elements of ${\bf a}$. Examples of such sets are given by $S_{\bf 1}=[1,m]$ and $S_{\bf 2}=\{2,3,4,\dots,2m\}$. It is well-known that the problem of evaluating the sum of the elements of $S_{\bf a}$ is linear, i.e. may be reduced to the calculation of a linear function of the elements of ${\bf a}$. In the present paper, we consider the binomial analog of this problem. We show that the problem of evaluating the binomial sum of the elements of $S_{\bf a}$ is also linear. Furthermore, we present a closed-form solution for the special case where the elements of ${\bf a}$ are all equal.
The Island is a novel written by Ragnar Jónasson, originally published in Icelandic as Flóttinn (lit. "The Floater"). Somewhere in northern Iceland, a man named Helgi is haunted by a trauma from his past. Twenty years earlier, he woke up on a small island with no idea how he got there. He didn't remember swimming to the island, and there was no boat or plane in sight. In his panic, Helgi tried to leave the island but found that all of his attempts to swim away failed. Over the next few days, Helgi's fear turned to confusion and then disorientation. He had no idea how he had come to be on the island and he had no way to leave. He felt hungry and his throat was parched, but there was no sign of human life or civilization. After his supplies ran out, Helgi was forced to survive on the island. He learned how to find food and water and how to build a fire. In his solitude, he began to talk to himself and developed an unusual relationship with the island and its inhabitants. One day, after his clothes had worn out and his hair had grown long, Helgi was finally able to leave the island. He was unable to remember how he had escaped. Upon returning to civilization, Helgi spoke of his experience on the island as if it were a dream. He struggled to readjust to regular life and began to suspect that his time on the
The Island, published in 2005, follows three parallel storylines set in 1998, 1938, and 1998 from the perspectives of Timothy, an architect; Albrecht, a Nazi architect; and Emma, a woman converging towards a single plot point: the construction of a mansion on a sinister island in northern Germany, and the occult rituals that take place there. islands seem to be a recurrent theme in Bennett's work; other novels of his include The Unseen Season and The SPARROW Project. In 1998, architect Timothy Cavendish receives an unusual request from his eighty-year-old employer, gaining him an all-expenses-paid trip to a hotel on an island in northern Germany, where he is to create a schematic drawing of a mansion. Upon arrival, he finds that he is to share his quarters with nine other architects, all of whom have been hired for the same purpose. They are served by a group of native islanders, who take care of their daily needs. One morning, Timothy wakes up to find himself alone in his quarters. He explores the island and discovers that the other architects have disappeared, and the natives claim to have never seen them. As he continues his exploration, he discovers a mysterious door sealed with a padlock in an abandoned monastery. He also finds a German manuscript dating to around 1938. In the second storyline, set in 1938, we learn the story of the sealed door. In 1938, architect Albrecht von Schiller is commissioned by the SS to design a mansion on the
Lyman Ward, a retired geologist and professor living in Berkeley, California, is struggling to write a novel. He is also struggling to care for his wife, who is suffering from advanced breast cancer. As he writes, Lyman occasionally gets up from his desk to look in on his wife, Xenia, reclining in bed in the next room. At the beginning of the novel, Xenia has just returned home from a stay in the hospital and is sleeping quietly. Lyman remembers the first time they met, at a party in the Bay Area shortly after the end of World War II. At the time, Xenia was working as a model for an art class and Lyman was immediately struck by her beauty. While Lyman was serving in the military in Hawaii, Xenia waited for him, and they were married shortly after his return. Due to Lyman's lack of money and social status, most of their marriage has been spent in Xenia's hometown of Placerville, California, where she cared for her ailing father until his death. Lyman's career as a geologist only took off once he reached retirement age. Lyman's story is interwoven with the story of his maternal great-aunt, Aoife ("Eefie") Angle, who lived in Placerville during the 19th century. Most of what Lyman knows about Eefie he learned from his mother, who admired her sister greatly. As a child, Eefie was adopted by her aunt and uncle, the Shelbys, after the death of her parents. Rather than treat her as
The novel tells the story of Ninety-Two Overdrive, a woman who marries a twice-widowed cattle ranch owner with three kids namedbomber. When the couple marry, Ninety-Two takes the last name "Haze". As she begins her new life, Ninety-Two discovers that the previous Mrs. Haze, a woman named Elly, has fatally burned herself in an explosion in the desert. Through flashbacks and the protagonist's introspection, the novel details Mrs. Haze's life with Bomber until her death. Growing up in an abusive family in Pennsylvania, Mrs. Haze falls in love with her husband, an older man named Lorenzo. His family does not approve of her, as she lacks refinement, and Lorenzo's father bullies and beats her. After Lorenzo mysteriously disappears, Mrs. Haze learns that he has divorced her. She then departs for the West, where she meets Bomber, who is attracted to her "unspectacular" resilience. Mrs. Haze's past comes back to haunt her when her ex-husband comes to visit her. He brings with him a dog named "Mister 880", so named because it is the 880th dog that he has trained to be a killer. Mister 880's original purpose was to kill Mrs. Haze, but upon meeting her again, Lorenzo decides to hire the dog out for contract killings. Mister 880 escapes from Lorenzo and elopes with a bitch that Mrs. Haze has taken a liking to. Frustrated, Lorenzo sets the house on fire, hoping to kill everyone inside. He is killed in the explosion, and Mrs. Haze barely escapes with her
Sense and Sensibility is a novel by Jane Austen, first published in 1811. It reflects Austen's views on the English countryside and its social conventions. The novel is a study of the romantic relationships of Elinor Dashwood and Marianne Dashwood, two sisters who represent the two aspects of sense and sensibility. The novel follows the sisters' efforts to find husbands and their reactions to society's expectations. Elinor, the more sensible of the two sisters, is cautious and reserved. She is in love with Edward Ferrars, but she knows that he is engaged to Lucy Steele. Nevertheless, she respects his decision and does not let her feelings show. Instead, she focuses on finding a husband for her sister Marianne, who represents sensibility. Marianne is passionate and emotional. She falls in love easily and is hurt when her affections are not returned. She rejects several suitors who do not meet her high standards for romance, including Colonel Brandon and Mr. Willoughby. Eventually, Marianne's emotions lead her to elope with Mr. Willoughby, but he leaves her before they can get married. She is forced to return home, where she eventually accepts Colonel Brandon's proposal. Elinor, meanwhile, discovers that Edward's engagement to Lucy is a lie. She and Edward declare their love for each other, and they get married. The novel concludes with the sisters' happiness in their new marriages.
Sense and Sensibility is a novel by Jane Austen, first published in 1811. It follows the lives of the sisters Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, who, upon the death of their father, must relocate to a small cottage in Devonshire, in comparison with their former home in Norland Park. The novel follows the sisters' romantic relationships as they deal with the impediments of limited finances and a society that favours wealth and status. Through their experiences, Austen explores conduct, affection and sensibility. The novel is in written in a retrospective style, with occasional interplay between the three different time frames. The majority of the story takes place shortly after the death of Henry Dashwood, the sisters' father. As the novel opens, his death and the subsequent reduction in the sisters' circumstances are already known, and the bulk of the narrative is concerned with events following this point. At the end of the first half of the novel, the narrative jumps ahead by almost a year, and at the end of the novel a further jump forward in time reveals the eventual fates of the characters. While Sense and Sensibility is not as satirical as Austen's later works, it is a biting social commentary about the lack of choice facing women of the 19th century. It is also a critique of masculinity and the destructive nature of adultery. Sense and Sensibility questions whether it is possible for people to overcome their social status and present themselves honestly, as well as the nature
Tonio Kröger is a novel written by Thomas Mann and first published in 1903. The story is that of a man who is divided in his personality, living in two worlds. On the one hand, he is a member of a wealthy merchant family in Lübeck, with all the comforts and privileges that brings. On the other hand, he feels a deep affinity with the working class, and his true self is revealed in his relationship with a poor but free-spirited and independent-minded girl named Ingeborg. Tonio tries to live in both worlds, but eventually realizes that he can never truly be at home in either. The novel explores the themes of identity, class, and the conflict between the individual and society. As a child, Tonio is a lonely and introspective boy who prefers to observe the world around him rather than participate in it. He is fascinated by the sailors and workers who frequent the tavern owned by his family, and he develops a keen appreciation for art and beauty. When he meets Ingeborg, he is immediately drawn to her free-spirited nature and her lack of concern for social status or material wealth. However, Tonio's family expects him to follow in their footsteps and become a successful businessman. He struggles to reconcile his own desires with the expectations of his family and society, and ultimately fails to find a balance between the two. His attempt to live a double life ultimately leads to his downfall, as he is unable
Tonio Kröger is a esthetic novel by Thomas Mann, first published in 1903. The novel is a reflection of Thomas Mann's own life, informed by the author's interest in Nietzschean philosophy. It is generally classified as a bildungsroman. The story is divided into nine chapters, and is told from the point of view of an artist who is closely based on Thomas Mann himself. The narrator describes his dual identity as a member of the business community of Lübeck, and as a artist or "creative man" à la Nietzsche. The " Tonio" of the title refers to the artistic alter ego of the narrator. Tonio is the son of a prosperous Lübeck merchant who is deathly afraid of homosexuality, and who obsessively monitors his son's every action. Tonio is a delicate and extremely sensitive child, and he is tormented by his father's distrust. Tonio's father forces him to choose a career in business, but Tonio's heart belongs to the world of art and poetry. Tonio's boyhood is spent dreaming and ruminating on the meaning of life, and he finds solace in nature and in the company of a handsome boy named Hans. As Tonio grows into manhood, he realizes that he is in love with Hans, and that his love is not reciprocated. Tonio's father discovers his son's friendship with Hans, and he accuses Tonio of homosexuality. Tonio is consumed with guilt and self-loathing, and he attempts to escape from his emotions by fleeing to Venice. In Venice, Tonio encounters
In November 2009, Alena Albrecht, a nineteen-year-old German woman, is murdered in Cologne's city center. Two months later, a witness comes forward: a homeless man named Robert, claiming to have witnessed the murderer's face. Detective Jan Köhler and his team gather evidence suggesting that the prime suspect is Marcus Schmitt, a well-known lawyer from an influential family. Schmitt is an alcoholic and regularly attends a support group. The members of the group become suspects as well, as each of them has a solid motive for the murder. Jan's colleague, Detective Isabelle Reich, leads the investigation; she and Jan have been friends since childhood. Isabelle's cousin, Stefan, falls in love with Alena shortly before her death, and Isabelle's brother, Philipp, is Schmitt's business partner. These familial ties create a complex web of loyalties and motives for the investigators. The case runs into various obstacles. The lack of physical evidence and the seemingly airtight alibis of the suspects create difficulties. A tape from a surveillance camera near the murder scene never materializes. Isabelle's investigation is also hampered by the new head of her department, who directs the focus of the inquiry toward the homeless people living in the area. Jan, on the other hand, is forced into early retirement due to an injury he sustained in the line of duty. Although he is no longer officially part of the investigation, he continues to investigate the case in an effort to clear the name of Stefan, with whom he became friends. Isabelle's marriage
In the 1950s, a group of young boys, led bypperborn Rick Patterson, formed a gang called the Black Foxes to defend themselves against the racism of the grown-ups around them. As they grew into men, the members of the gang went their separate ways, losing touch with one another. Thirty years later, Reyster Patterson, son of the gang's founder, is a wealthy but lonely businessman. While in church one day, he sees a black man, Jesse Taylor, and is immediately attracted to him. After tracking Jesse down at a barber shop, Reyster learns that Jesse is the son of the Black Foxes' old captain, and the two of them go to Reyster's house to talk. Reyster asks Jesse to forgive him for the way adults had treated him and his father, and the two of them kiss. Meanwhile, Reyster's cousin Boyd, who has always resented Reyster due to his wealth, takes advantage of Reyster's absence to try to seduce Reyster's secretary, Janice. She resists him, and he assaults her. Later that night, Jesse comes to Reyster's home, and they make love for the first time. The following day, Reyster introduces Jesse to his friends Victor and Barry, and Jesse gets along well with them. One of the builders working on Reyster's home, Bigger Thomas, takes an instant disliking to Jesse, and when Jesse accidentally spills some of Bigger's tools, Bigger begins beating him. Reyster tries to defend Jesse, but Bigger pulls out a knife and tries to stab Reyster, who
In June 1957, an exchange of prisoners between the government of Venezuela and guerillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) goes awry when the guerillas murder the three Venezuelan soldiers in their custody, and the government executes the 49 guerillas. The event polarizes the people of Venezuela between those who support the government and those who believe that the soldiers' lives were wasted. Fifty years later, the event continues to haunt the lives of the people involved. The novel follows the lives of three main characters: Elena Puente, an elderly woman living in an apartment in downtown Caracas; Antonio José Bolívar, who is serving a prison sentence for murder and theft; and Pelayo Puente, an artist who has recently returned to Venezuela after many years in Europe. Their stories are connected by a hidden mystery dating back to the June 1957 murder of three Venezuelan soldiers by a gang of guerillas, and the subsequent slaughter of the gang by the Venezuelan army. Elena Puente, now a widow, was married to Captain Ramón Puente, who was killed during the 1957 events. She has lived for the past 50 years with the guilt of believing that her husband was a murderer and a thief, though she has never been able to discover any evidence to support her fears. As the novel begins, she is preparing to attend the annual mass commemorating her husband at a local church. At the mass, she meets Alberto Santana, a man who claims to have
In June 1962, an exchange student from Costa Rica, Leticia Tamariz, is being driven to the port of Veracruz from Mexico City, where she has been staying with her cousin Silda. On the way, they are forced off the road by a posse of local police and paramilitary rurales, who seize Tamariz. Her cousin and the two Mexican professors they were visiting rush to Veracruz and appeal to the local police, who refuse to help. The crime appears to have been committed on the orders of the governor, who is attempting to force Tamariz's father, the owner of a large Costa Rican banana plantation, to sell the land to him. When news of the kidnapping reaches Costa Rica, Tamariz's father solicits the help of Presbyterian minister Ralph Flores, whose church is located on the Tamariz family's banana plantation. Flores puts together a vigilante squad composed of employees of the banana plantation and sets out for Mexico with a letter from Tamariz's father, to be delivered to the Mexican ambassador in Costa Rica. In Mexico, Flores's crew joins up with Silda and the two professors and attempts to trace Tamariz's path. At the same time, Tamariz's father employs an American private detective, who is secretly on the payroll of the Mexican governor. The group enters Veracruz disguised as Mayan Indians and finds the local police suspicious and uncooperative. They locate the police station in which Tamariz was held and learn that she has been taken to a hacienda. Breaking in, they
In Idaho in the 1970s, Salamanca Tree Hiddle, a 13-year-old girl who was named after a city in Spain, tells the story of her missing mother, who abandoned her when she was a baby and who she calls "the mother person." In classic coming-of-age fashion, Sal entertains many theories about her mother's absence during her childhood, including that her mother was a witch who turned herself into a bear and briefly became trapped in a magical dimension (this theory comes from Sal's eccentric father, who believes in omens and dreams). Sal's father, who is rarely around and often distracted, travels with a carnival, and leaves Sal in the care of her grandparents, who live in the small town of Three Oaks. Sal's grandparents are kind to her, but they are old and ailing, and they do not understand Sal's sometimes outlandish behavior, which includes her tendency to dress in costumes and her preoccupation with fairy tales and myths. Frustrated by their inability to connect with Sal, they send her to live with her aunt, April, who is only slightly more understanding of Sal's eccentricities. April is raising her daughter, Phoebe, while simultaneously helping her husband, Charles, with his campaign for state senator. Though April occasionally shows flashes of warmth and understanding, she is primarily concerned with appearing respectable, a goal that is often at odds with Sal's behavior. Indeed, Sal's unconventional lifestyle eventually prompts April to ask her brother, Sal's father, to take Sal back. However, before he can return
Walk Two Moons is a novel written by American author Sharon Creech, published in 1994. It follows the story of a young girl named Salamanca Tree Hiddle, or Sal, who lives in Euclid, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. Sal is thirteen years old and in eighth grade. Her best friend is a boy named Sam, and her closest ally is her grandparents, with whom she lives. Sal's mother has recently married a man named John and moved to Idaho with him and Sal's six-year-old sister, Cascade. Sal refers to this as "my mother's second marriage and sudden departure". Sal travels to Idaho to meet her mother and sister there. The novel is written as a series of episodes in the first person voice of Sal, with each episode separated by a gap of time. These episodes do not always follow a linear sequence. In many instances, Sal relates more than one episode from her past, then jumps forward in time to the present, then back again to another episode from her past. However, the episodes do follow a logical order, so that the reader is slowly given clues about the mystery that underlies Sal's journey. Walk Two Moons was praised for its accurate portrayal of teenage girls and Creech's ability to capture the voice of a young girl. The book was a Newbery Medal winner and was also nominated for numerous other awards. It has sold more than three million copies and has been translated into multiple languages.
Mutation is a novel written by Robin Cook. It follows Dr. Jack Stapleton, a Manhattan orthopedic surgeon, as he learns of a mysterious disease that is causing a number of deformed births around the world. The disease is revealed to be a result of a mutation of the MCPH1 gene, which controls the production of a protein essential for the formation of the cerebral cortex and the brain. The mutation leads to the absence of the cerebral cortex, resulting in a brain composed only of brainstem and cerebellum. The disease is also found to be inherited, and those with the disease are often unable to speak or walk. Dr. Stapleton's investigation into the disease leads him to a mysterious research facility in Hawaii, where he discovers a group of scientists working to cure the disease. However, the scientists are unable to cure the disease, and Dr. Stapleton is forced to face the reality that there is no cure.
Mutation is a novel written by Robin Cook. It follows Dr. Jack McBride, a doctor at Boston Memorial Hospital, as he struggles to solve the mysterious death of five teenagers who die of a strange fungal infection that is later discovered to be connected to a group of scientists researching parasites and fungi at a local university. The novel explores the moral implications of the scientists' work and the potential consequences of their research. It also examines the impact of their actions on the families of the victims and the larger community. Throughout the story, McBride battles a powerful and influential group determined to protect their interests, as well as his own personal demons. As he gets closer to the truth, he finds himself in increasing danger.
In The Calculus Affair, Professor Moriarty is back to seek his revenge on Sherlock Holmes, this time by having abducted Holmes' colleague and lover, Dr. Watson, and tampering with Watson's memory, so that Watson believes that he has murdered Holmes. Holmes escapes from the falling house at the end of The Final Problem and makes his way to Watson's home, where he discovers a cryptic message that Watson left for him, which forms the title of the book. With the help of Holmes' housekeeper Mrs. Hudson, Holmes decrypts the message, which turns out to be a single sentence in Latin, describing the murder of a red-headed man. Using the address that is mentioned in the sentence, Holmes locates the home of the late mathematician Professor Presbury, who turns out to have been murdered by having his head smashed in with a calculus textbook, of which only a few pages are missing. Holmes discovers that an accomplice of Moriarty's, Sebastian Moran, has also been searching Professor Presbury's house, and finds Moran hiding in a room, about to shoot him. A fight ensues, during which Holmes flings Moran's gun into a nearby pond. In need of a weapon, Moran rushes into the pond to retrieve his gun, but the water causes the weapon to explode, killing Moran. With Moran out of the picture, the kidnappers of Watson release him, and he returns home where he and Holmes reunite. The kidnappers had been hired by Moriarty, who had also framed Moran for the
It's Tuesday, so Sandy and Denniston are at the pub. Babbage arrives, seemingly drunk, and gives Sandy a pocket watch, telling him that inside is "something very precious", and that he's going on a long journey and won't be seeing him for a while. Later that evening, Babbage tells Denniston that during the day he was visited by entities (the "Quiet Folk") requesting his assistance in preventing an evil entity (the "Antique Lover") from destroying the world, and that he has agreed to help them. Babbage tells Denniston that, based on clues provided by the Quiet Folk, the dangerous entity is inside a metal container approximately four feet wide and two feet tall, at a particular address; he and Denniston are to retrieve it and bring it to Babbage. Denniston and Sandy retrieve the container (a safe), which weighs roughly half a ton, and bring it to Babbage, who opens it. Within is a creature, which Babbage identifies as a small form of the Antique Lover; it tries to attack him, but he jams his hands into its eyes, rendering it blind. The Quiet Folk inform Babbage that the creature can only be kept in suspended animation within the safe and that it will remain blind for only a limited time, and they give him a potion to restore its vision. Babbage reluctantly drinks the potion, which temporarily blinds him, and the creature reconstitutes itself and escapes. The trio pursue it to the house of Lord brittlewick, where the creature
''Who Goes There?'' is a 1938 science fiction novella by John W. Campbell. Allegedly, it was written simultaneously with the completion of Asimov's ''Nightfall'', another classic story. It was first published in the August 1938 issue of Astounding Science Fiction, and has been reprinted numerous times since. The novella is a horror/mystery story in which an Antarctic research station discovers a crashed alien spaceship, and the sole survivor of the crash. The story is an exploration of the theme of The Thing From Another World, and of the fear of alien invasion. The story can be divided into three sections: the discovery of the alien spaceship, the reconstruction of the alien creature, and the final confrontation between the alien and the humans. The discovery of the spaceship is described from the point of view of an expedition from a research base at McMurdo Sound. The team, consisting of three scientists and three dogs, sets out to survey the area around the base. They discover the alien ship, damaged but still intact, on the shore of an unmapped lake. The ship is a large, disc-shaped object, and it appears to have crashed into the lake. The team investigates the ship, and they find that it is inhabited by a single alien creature. The creature is in a state of hibernation, and it is not moving or responding to any external stimuli. The team decides to bring the creature back to the research base for further study. The reconstruction of the alien
''Who Goes There?'' is a science fiction novella by John W. Campbell, which was reprinted in numerous magazines and anthologies after its original publication in the August 1938 issue of Astounding Science Fiction. The narrative concerns the discovery of an alien entity (called the Thing) in the Antarctic and the subsequent struggle for survival as the entity infiltrates and destroys a scientific research team. In the course of the story, the Thing adopts a variety of personas and deceive the team, which is reduced to two men and an Alaskan dog as the others are killed or disappear. The title is derived from the Nursery rhyme "Who Goes There?", which uses commonplace phrases to explore the nature of reality. This title was chosen by the story's editor John W. Campbell, who opined that the title held a sense of foreboding. The novella was well-received by readers and critics, and was awarded a Hugo Award for Best Novelette in 1939. Several film adaptations have been produced, most notably John Carpenter's 1982 film of the same name, which grossed over $20 million at the box office.
The Carpet People is a fantasy novel written by Terry Pratchett, published in 1971. It follows the adventures of Fray, a young man who is transported to the world of the " Carpet People ", small creatures who live in a world that is indistinguishable from the patterned carpets found in the houses of humans. The Carpet People are terrified of humans, believing them to be the source of all evil. Fray attempts to convince them that this is not the case, but his efforts are complicated by a conspiracy to overthrow the Carpet People's king by a group of rebels. At the beginning of the story, Fray is a disillusioned and unhappy young man, who is struggling to come to terms with the death of his father. He is transported to the world of the Carpet People by a magical incident that occurs as he contemplates a mysterious symbol that is present on a carpet in his home. This symbol, which resembles an eye, is the subject of a powerful and ancient magic that allows it to transport anyone who gazes upon it to the world of the Carpet People. Fray is initially confused and disoriented by his arrival in the Carpet People's world, but he is greeted by a group of friendly creatures who explain the rules and customs of the carpet. He is particularly struck by the beauty of a female Carpet Person named Yaz. Yaz and Fray become friends, and Yaz agrees to guide Fray through
Meanwhile, another axial earthquake strikes, this time splitting the hide of the world into massive new valleys and exposing unheard-of treasures and wonders. This time, however, the people of the Carpet survive, and quickly populate the newly-formed valleys. One of these newcomers is Shrucker, the former apprentice of Daccar, who has fled his homeland after his betrayal was discovered. Shrucker reaches the safety of the Pin people, and tells them of the marvelous things he has seen in the new valleys. Despite their innate conservatism, the Pin people, too, are excited by the prospect of change, and quickly prepare to leave the carpet and explore the features of the new valleys. Among the departing Pin people are Rifkin, the youthful and imaginative explorer, and Tarkin, the old and unattractive wizard who is Rifkin's mentor and protector. Tarkin is able to telepathically communicate with the Carpet dragons, and has been the Pin people's liaison with the creatures for many generations. The third member of the party is Quip, a garrulous know-it-all who has survived many catastrophes on the Carpet. The party quickly discovers that the new valleys are host to a multitude of fabulous sights, and they are amazed by the changes that have occurred. Among other things, they discover evidence of previous visits to the Carpet by spacefaring aliens, and the remnants of high-tech equipment from an extinct race of engineers. They also discover the valley of the Fibaum, a magical plant with unparalleled healing abilities. The Fibaum sap can
The story is about a giant who was so tall that he couldn't fit in any castle or house, and he was forced to sleep in a cave. He was very sad about this, and one day he met a witch who offered to help him. The witch gave the giant an "eye of a giant" that would help him see better, and the giant was very happy with it. The witch then told the giant that she would come back every month to collect the eye's lens, which the giant had to retrieve from the back of his eye each time. The giant soon realized that the witch was actually stealing his eyesight, but he couldn't do anything about it because the witch had also placed a curse on him so that he could not tell anyone about it. The giant was very frustrated and tried to stop the witch, but it was too late. The witch had already taken his eyesight, and the giant was left blind. The giant was very sad about this and decided to take revenge on the witch by killing her. The giant was very angry and wanted to kill the witch right away, but he couldn't because the witch had disappeared. The giant then realized that the witch had been using her magic to trick him and that she wasn't actually helping him at all. The giant was very frustrated and decided to take revenge on the witch by killing her next time
The Eye of the Giant is a novel written by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. It follows the story of an elderly giantess named Althea, who lives in Africa with her two daughters:持Metadata centers on Althea's life memories as she lies dying. Her recollections traverse her distant past, describing her childhood in Ireland, her young adulthood in Africa, and her eventual marriage to Henderson, with whom she has two daughters. The story describes how Althea's father, a cruel and violent man, sold her into slavery after her mother's death. It follows her struggles as an enslaved person and her arduous journey to Africa, where she eventually prevails and establishes a new life for herself. As Althea recalls these memories, she realizes that her past continues to influence her present life and the lives of her daughters. She must come to terms with the guilt and remorse she feels for the pain she has caused others, and ultimately find a way to move forward and let go of the past. The novel explores themes of family, memory, and the impact of the past on the present. It is a moving and poignant story that offers a glimpse into the complexities of human experience and the power of forgiveness.
"Deathtrap" is a 1982 thriller novel by American writer Ira Levin. It is Levin's second novel featuring fictional playwright Sidney Bruhl, who previously appeared in the author's 1978 novel The Stepford Wives. Deathtrap introduces the concept of a "murder mystery" play (in the genre of Agatha Christie) that is so perfect that whenever it is performed, the audience members cannot help but try to guess who the murderer is, even though the identity of the killer is a carefully kept secret. The author also introduces the concept of the "non-lethal murder mystery," in which the play's protagonist(s) kill without ever intending to kill. The story is told through Sidney Bruhl's periodic journal entries, and is accompanied by dialogue from the actors in his play (which is also called "Deathtrap"). Sidney Bruhl, a successful, middle-aged playwright with a string of hits behind him, is struggling to write his next play. Out of the blue, he receives a script from a former student, Clifford Anderson, who lives in an isolated farmhouse in New England with his wife and four children. The play, "Deathtrap," is a chilling, suspenseful thriller, clearly based on the works of Agatha Christie. Sidney recognizes the play's potential, and writes a congratulatory note to Clifford, asking to meet and discuss the play's production. At the meeting, Clifford is barely able to communicate, clearly being on the autism spectrum. However, his wife, Helga, is a charming, if somewhat tired, beauty who expresses a desire to move to New York City
"Deathtrap" is a 1982 thriller play by Ira Levin. It is a murder mystery spoof, satirizing numerous genre tropes, though containing plenty of genuine thrills and chills. The play follows novelist Sidney Bruhl, who receives a script from a former student who has recently died, for a play apparently so perfect that Bruhl eventually concedes it is too good for him to have written. It opens with Bruhl's reading of the script, followed by scenes depicting the action of the play as Bruhl attempts to learn its true author. The bulk of the action takes place in the living room of the Bruhl residence, situated in an isolated area outside Stamford, Connecticut. The residence contains a large staircase which descends into the living room, and contains several hidden passages within the walls, along with secret rooms and multiple entrances and exits. These passages and rooms are used during the climactic scene to bring the play's true author, Clifford Anderson, into the living room, where he and Bruhl engage in a deadly game of cat and mouse. The play's title refers to the mortise and tenon "death trap" from Shakespeare's Hamlet, which playwright Clifford Anderson added to the design of the stairs in the Bruhl living room. During the first act, Bruhl repeatedly expresses his disdain for the genre of thrillers, especially in comparison to Shakespeare. This is manifested in his continual allusions to Shakespeare plays, and his occasional direct quotes of the Bard's works. The allusions are almost always followed
"Engines of Creation" is a 2006 hard science fiction novel written by Eric S. Nylund. It is the story of a future where humans have achieved practical, inexpensive and virtually unlimited transportation and communication by plugging their brains into a neural network called the "Noosphere". Humans subsequently discover the ability to alter bacteria to create new materials for construction, and even to reshape their bodies and minds. The main character, Michael Norse, is a scientist who discovers a method of changing humans at the molecular level to allow people to have new abilities. This becomes a coveted technology, and Norse becomes the most hunted man in the world.
"Engines of Creation" is a 2006 hard science fiction novel written by Eric C. Otto. The novel's premise is based on the idea that the major technological breakthrough needed to achieve practical and efficient space travel is the fabrication of artificial wormholes. It is a sequel to Otto's 2004 novel "In the Shadow of Aroid": the two novels are set in the same future universe, many generations after mankind has colonized other planets, and there are many references to the first novel. In the timeline of the novels, the starship Frost fails to survive the first experimental jump through a wormhole, which occurs in the opening scene of "Engines of Creation". Subsequently, Mirza Marichal, the scientist who built the wormhole engine, is detained for questioning on the planet Sentora, along with the ship's officers and a passenger, Grigorij nan David, who is the novel's protagonist. During the interrogation, nan David learns that Marichal has been placed under sentence of death because of his ambiguous connection with the faithist rebellion on the colony world Harmony. The rebellion is led by Marichal's one-time friend and business partner, faithist theologian Andrej Korolov, against the planet's colonizing government, the Commission for Human Settlement (CHS), which is dominated by secularists. The struggle has reached an impasse, since the CHS has successfully blockaded Harmony, and Korolov has refused to surrender, instead declaring himself the prophet of a new faith. The CHS offers to pardon Marichal if he will help them to devise a way of transmitting
Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc is an 1896 novel by Mark Twain. It is written in the first person, describing the history of Joan of Arc and her momentous actions during the Hundred Years' War. The novel is framed as a play script. The main character, Joan, narrates most of the story. Other characters from the play occasionally step into the narration. For example, a soldier describes the entrance of Joan in Orleans at the end of the fifth chapter. At the beginning of the novel, Joan's village is suffering from a plague. She has visions sent from God that instruct her to go to the 'King of France' and drive the English out of France. It is only after her brother, Jacques, sends her to the commander of the national army that she realizes she has been referring to Charles VII, who has been disinherited by his uncle, the Duke of Bedford. She travels to Chinon where she meets Charles. After proving to him that she has had visions of God and has been appointed by God to expel the English, Joan becomes the chief leader of the French forces and begins to drive the English back by rallying the French people and convincing the king to fight. She leads the French army to the relief of Orleans, which has been besieged by the English for nearly six months. The English appear to be on the verge of winning and the citizens have been forced to starve. Joan
Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc is an 1898 novel by Mark Twain. It is written in the first person, based on the trial transcript of Joan of Arc. Twain researched the transcript extensively and wrote the novel in Niagara Falls, Ontario, during a period of three weeks. The novel takes the form of a play script, and is framed as the recollection of Pierre Cauchon, the bishop of Beauvais, who supervised Joan's trial. Cauchon, a fictionalized version of the real historical figure, is depicted as a spiteful, arrogant, hypocritical, and vindictive individual who takes every opportunity to insult Joan and interfere with her defense. At the same time, he constantly praises the correctness and piety of his own actions. Twain's motive for writing the novel, as indicated in the preface, was that he was concerned that Joan of Arc was not properly appreciated by the French, whose historical records, in Twain's opinion, were biased in favor of Cauchon. He therefore decided to "revise and correct" the trial transcript. The novel offers a sympathetic portrayal of Joan, describing her as an innocent, heroic figure who is misunderstood and mistreated by the church. It also paints a critical picture of the Catholic Church and the hypocrisies of institutional religion. The novel fell out of print for many years, and it is not clear how many copies were printed. It was somewhat rediscovered in the 1930s and is now available in multiple editions. Critical reception of the novel has been mixed. Some
In the summer of 1949, art historian John Sutherland arrives at the remote farmhouse of artist Miles Allerton, in the hope of acquiring an important painting for a New York gallery. He has come at the invitation of Allerton's wife, the former Vivien Leigh, who hopes that the company of another intellectual will alleviate the boredom of her isolated life. Meanwhile, Allerton is away in London, pursuing his latest romantic obsession, a young ballet dancer named Lily. Vivien invites John to stay for the summer, and over the course of his extended stay, John becomes increasingly obsessed with Vivien. In the end, Allerton returns and John's obsession comes to a startling conclusion.
Ingeborg Bachmann wrote the novel in German; it was published in 1954. The English translation by Charles Wright was published in 1965. In 1955 it was translated into Dutch, and in 1956 into French. Its Norwegian translation was published in 1962, and a Danish translation exists. It was republished in German in 1999 with an introduction by hans Magnus Enzensberger. The action takes place in the summer and autumn of 1952 in Vienna. It opens with the protagonist, a 29-year-old woman named Alma Fessler, drowning a rat in the River Danube. She then throws the rat's body into the sewer, where it is washed, unchanged, onto a beach. This episode is the first of several that appear to be without explanation, though everything happens for a reason. Alma lives in Vienna with her father, a coarse, brutal man who manufactures ergot, a poisonous extract of rye. Ergot is a source of collective delusion, an appropriate occupation for Alma's father, who fervently believes in the superiority of the Germanic race and the Hitler regime which fostered this belief. Her father is an enthusiastic supporter of the Austrian dictator, Julius Mazeppa, and the book implicitly suggests a connection between the two men, both of whom are fatally ill. Alma seems to be free of her father's prejudices, but has not yet found a way to assert her independence. She is torn between the dull but reliable factory manager Herr Hoffstetter, who wants to marry her, and the exciting but dangerous relationship she
Legacy is a novel written by Susan Kay Lawley. It follows the story of William Bradford, a wealthy man who, on his deathbed, disowns his illegitimate son,itan Bradford. Prior, Bradford tells his brother, Richard, of his intent to leave his entire estate to his legitimate son, Andrew, and begs Richard to watch over Andrew should something happen to him. When Andrew dies of pneumonia shortly thereafter, Richard becomes the guardian of Andrew's two sons, ten-year-old Billy and five-year-old Pete. Andrew's wife, Kathleen, becomes a virtual slave to Richard and his domineering wife, Annie. In each subsequent generation, the younger brother inherits the house and the wealth, while the older brother is forced to make his own way. Each generation also has its tragic death, usually involving water. The action of the novel takes place during the century following William Bradford's death, and spans the lives of four generations of the Bradford family as they struggle to break the legacy of William Bradford.
Werewolf vs. Dragon is a horror-fantasy novel by Schowalter and Warren, in which an ancient evil emerges from the depths of the Earth to unite the magical races of the world in a plot to destroy the human race. The only ones who can stop them are a small group of werewolves who are cursed with suffering from the painful transformation under the full moon, and the dragons who are cursed with not being able to fly. The novel centers on sixteen-year-old Karin, who is bitten by a werewolf and then drawn into the conflict when she learns that she has the ability to make werewolves immune to the painful transformations. She is forced to join with a group of dragons and a werewolf in order to save herself from the evil forces, who have targeted her in order to get control of her powers. As the young group tries to figure out how to defeat the powerful enemy, they slowly begin to discover that they may be the only ones who can save the world from the coming destruction.
Werewolf vs. Dragon is a horror-fantasy novel by Schyler Phillips published in 2023. It follows a teenage girl named Rose who is attacked by a werewolf while camping in a Wisconsin state park and becomes infected with the werewolf curse herself. She embarks on a journey to cure her curse by finding the dragon who created it and hopes to convince the dragon to remove it. Meanwhile, Rose's best friend Ben enters the plot as he attempts to find Rose and convince her to turn herself in to the national park rangers, as her murderous rampage is broadcast on the news. Rose's transformation into a werewolf is painful and she feels guilt over the deaths she causes while in her mutated form. To ease her pain, she begins to steal and become a criminal. While she is stealing from a convenience store, Rose's transformation is witnessed by the store owner, who recognizes the werewolf's distinctive ears as those of his long-lost son Edward. Rose learns that Edward was a werewolf who became cursed by the same dragon and realizes that she must find Edward to help her with her own curse. Ben begins to search for Rose by using her Transformation Cycle to find the bodies of her werewolf kills. He is upset by the gruesome nature of the werewolf's kills and decides to use this as his motive to kill Rose himself, both for the safety of the public and to avenge the victims. He is also motivated by
The disappearance of Harriet Vanger continues to haunt the members of the Vanger family since they have yet to confront the mystery surrounding her fate. Forty years later, Mikael Blomkvist, a criminal investigator and partner in a magazine publishing company, is contacted by Henrik Vanger. Henrik offers Blomkvist financial security and seclusion on Harriett's remote family estate situated on a frozen island in exchange for his promise to write the history of the Vanger family. Blomkvist soon finds himself in the middle of an intricate web of family secrets and crimes as he attempts to unlock the mystery of what happened to the missing Harriet. In the meantime, he forms an intimate relationship with Harriet's niece, Lisbeth Salander, a misunderstood prodigy with a murky past who is herself a kind of enigma.
The disappearance of Frazer Spiteri on Mar. 1, 2009, leads Detective Inspector Henry Hobson to the door of Chantal Kool, last seen with Frazer on the night he disappeared. Noting Chantal's scratched and bloodied hands, Hobson becomes certain that Chantal is hiding something. When Chantal's boyfriend, Ryan, arrives, Hobson notices a similarity between Ryan and Frazer. Meanwhile, docile wife Ellie begins to question her husband John's activities, and John's daughter, Cloe, makes a horrifying discovery in the woods. Hobson learns that Frazer and Ryan used to be a couple, and that Frazer had dumped Ryan for Chantal just two weeks prior to his disappearance. At the station, Chantal suddenly collapses, and a nurse discovers track marks on her arm. She is pumped full of drugs to counteract the shock and is held for questioning the next day. John arrives at the station, and Hobson shows him a picture of Frazer. John claims not to know him, but Cloe arrives with a box of photos she found in the woods showing John and Frazer, first as boys and then as adults. Chantal is released, but her father, Jean-Pierre, arrives and agrees to take her back to Amsterdam. Just before she leaves, Hobson asks her if she knows where Frazer is, and she replies, "I wish I did." After Chantal leaves, Hobson tells his colleague Jim Carruthers that he knows Chantal is involved in Frazer's disappearance. At the house, Cloe plays with a Rubik's Cube that Frazer had bought for Ryan.
Child of the Wolves is a novel written by James Oliver Rigney, which was published in 1986. It is the eighth book in the Legends of the Guardian-King series, which focuses on the adventures of a half-human, half-fairy protector of the realm of Terrebaiane. In this novel, the hero, Auban, learns that his lover, Naia, has given birth to his son, Tammas. Naia's family, the Veruoc, distrusts Auban and demands that he leave Terrebaiane forever. To ensure his safety, Auban's friend, the wizard Scathain, transforms him into a wolf. Scathain promises to return Auban to his human form after thirteen years have passed; however, Scathain is killed by an enemy wizard named Kael before he can change Auban back. Auban's son, Tammas, inherits Scathain's powers and learns how to transform himself into a wolf. He and Auban begin communicating telepathically and develop a close relationship. Tammas falls in love with a woman named Larissa and marries her. Shortly after their wedding, Auban is captured by werewolves and injected with a werewolf bite. He transforms into a werewolf and attacks Tammas and Larissa, who are expecting their first child. Tammas is able to subdue Auban and locks him in a cage. With the help of Larissa's aunt, Tammas and Larissa set up a laboratory in which they attempt to find an antidote to the werewolf curse. Tammas eventually succeeds and Auban is restored to his normal self. Upon being reunited with his father, Tammas' son, Riagan, displays great power as a
Kirill Pokrovsky arrives in Moscow and is picked up by his older brother, Vladimir. Flashbacks reveal that their father had been a colonel in the Soviet military and that he had been cursed by a "wolf child" while serving in the Sino-Soviet border conflict. The curse caused him to go mad and murder their mother, and Kirill and Vladimir were placed in an orphanage. Kirill and Vladimir go to a nightclub where they meet up with Alina and her friend Irina. Alina is Vladimir's girlfriend. Kirill attracts the attention of a mysterious woman named Larisa Volochkova who whispers a warning to him about Vladimir. The next day Vladimir shows Kirill a building overlooking a metro station that he plans to use for his architectural firm once he finishes renovating it. Vladimir introduces Kirill to his friend Malinkov and his girlfriend Natasha, who will also be working with them. Unknown to Vladimir, Kirill starts a relationship with Alina. One night, Kirill is attacked by a vampire but is saved by Larisa. She tells him that the vampire was a werewolf and that he must kill it before sunrise. Kirill attempts to kill the werewolf but is stopped by Vladimir, who realizes that the werewolf is Malinkov. Malinkov transforms back into a human and begs for mercy. Vladimir decides to spare his life and has him locked up. Kirill is once again attacked by Malinkov, who has escaped from prison. This time Malinkov transforms into a werewolf right in front of Vladimir,
In a faraway kingdom a king dies, leaving his kingdom in the hands of his young son, Prince Laszlo. King Beloso was opposed to the idea of slavery, but after his death slavery continued in the kingdom. When Prince Laszlo reaches his majority, he confronts slaves who are working at roadwork, telling them that they should not be slaves and should be free. Influenced by his friend Aztar, he decides to free the slaves. Aztar is the son of the slave leader Zala, and though Aztar is the heir of his father, Zala wants Aztar to be free and lead a normal life. Aztar and Laszlo become friends, but their friendship is threatened by Lazslo's cousin, Princess Citrine, who is engaged to Laszlo but in love with Aztar. When Laszlo falls in love with Aztar's sister, Princess Madora, Aztar becomes jealous and challenges Laszlo for Madora's love. Laszlo is defeated but spares Aztar's life. Upon his victory, Laszlo is challenged by Zala, who is upset by his son's injury in the duel. Laszlo kills Zala in single combat but spares Aztar's life once again. Aztar is then banished from the kingdom. Later, Citrine forges a letter from Aztar, which accuses Laszlo of murdering King Beloso, and presents it to the council. This results in Laszlo being poisoned by his wine. Madora drinks the wine to prove it is not poisoned, and she is killed. Aztar is eventually forgiven by Laszlo and allowed to return to the kingdom. He helps Laszlo
In a land ravaged by mythical beasts, the fate of the realm lies in the hands of four unlikely heroes. Their mission is to find the elusive Ring of Seasons, an ancient and powerful artifact that can restore balance to the world. The group, consisting of a wise wizard, a brave warrior, a witty rogue, and a mystical elf, must brave many perils as they journey across the land. They encounter ruthless bandits, treacherous landscapes, and menacing creatures that test their strength, courage, and resolve. As they get closer to their goal, the four heroes begin to realize that the Ring of Seasons is more than just a powerful weapon. It is a symbol of hope and unity for the entire realm, and its restoration could bring about a new era of peace and prosperity. However, their quest is not without challenges. A powerful dark wizard, determined to claim the ring for himself, launches a massive assault on the group. He unleashes his formidable magic and hordes of minions to stop them in their tracks. Despite the overwhelming odds, the four heroes refuse to give up. United by their shared purpose and driven by their unwavering determination, they launch a counterattack that turns the tide of the battle. Through their bravery and cunning, they emerge victorious and continue their journey. As the group reaches the ring's final destination, they are confronted by a series of tests designed to determine their worthiness. Each hero must confront their deepest fears and overcome
In the summer of 1948, 13-year-old Frank Nichols and his 11-year-old cousin, Sam, are staying at Sam's family farm in southern Indiana. The farm is managed by Sam's father, Uncle Wilf, and staffed by a small, reclusive black man named Jesse, who lives in a toolshed near the barn. One night, while the boys are sitting in the loft of the barn, they see Jesse descend into the toolshed and disappear. Sam suggests that Jesse is a "spook," a supernatural being, and that the toolshed is a "fairy house." The boys decide to investigate. They retrieve a candle from the house and, as they approach the shed, they hear beautiful music and see a faint glow. They knock on the door and Jesse invites them in. Sam is terrified and tries to run away, but Frank overcomes his fear and enters the shed. He sees Jesse sitting in a chair, bathed in a bright light. A luminous being appears before Frank and says, "Don't be afraid." Frank is suddenly filled with peace and joy. He feels that he has encountered a heavenly being. When Frank returns to the house, Sam's parents dismiss his story as fantasy. The following night, Frank returns to the toolshed. Jesse is again seated in the chair, and this time Frank is terrified by the bright light. A being appears and says, "You're not ready yet. You must wait. There is a purpose to your waiting." Frank again feels a sense of peace and joy. He
A Visitation of Spirits is a novel written by Norm Huston that deals with the fictionalized account of Mark Twain's arrival in Winnipeg, Manitoba in the summer of 1872. Twain had come to Winnipeg to participate in a exaggeration of a quack doctor's cure for respiratory ailments. Twain arrives in Winnipeg and is met by his advance man, Dick Bulstrode, and Dick's estranged wife, Molly. Twain is afflicted with cough, a chronic condition he contracted many years earlier while residing in Vienna. He checked into the Walhalla Hotel and, after a fitful night's sleep, wakes up believing he is dead. Sent back to earth to complete his "visitation", he is followed by two " Spirits" who are there to ensure Twain gets his life in order. They are Beckwick, who appears as a practical, no-nonsense anthropologist, and Sir John, a physician whose time on Earth was during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. Twain goes through life regularly encountering the two Spirits, who attempt to keep him focused on improving his character and making the world a better place. Along the way, Twain takes a youthful Indian boy, Cody, under his wing and woos Molly Bulstrode, who is trapped in an unhappy marriage with Dick.
Sabre-Tooth (2002) follows a young Neanderthal man, Tumak, who is expelled from his tribe. He is forced to wander farther and farther from his home, finally arriving at a settlement of Homo sapiens, from whom Neanderthals had previously kept their distance. Tumak is shocked when he is confronted by an old Homo sapiens man, who attacks him with a pointed stick that has been ignited. When Tumak does not run, the man throws the torch at him, which Tumak deflects with his spear. The two then become friends. The man, Loana, takes Tumak to see the "magic sticks" that start the fire. From there, Tumak wants to see more "magic," especially the "magic" that helps Homo sapiens to fly. He is taken to see the large birds that Homo sapiens call "birds that fly." At first, Tumak is scared of the "birds that fly," but he overcomes his fear and climbs into the bird's nest. Suddenly, the bird flies, and Tumak is thrilled. Soon, he is an expert at flying in the bird and goes on his first hunt with the Homo sapiens. One day, Tumak and Loana go too far and are attacked by a saber-toothed tiger. Loana is killed, but Tumak kills the tiger. He is hurt but survives. Tumak returns to his tribe and tells them about the "magic" of the Homo sapiens. However, the Neanderthals do not believe him. Tumak decides to leave his tribe again and live with the Homo sapiens. He then notices that
Muru is a young man who lives in a village alongside the Moharic people. He is in love with Kiri, the most beautiful girl in the village. His best friend is Rodolf, who is in love with Maisa, Kiri's best friend. The two young men decide to prove their worth by hunting the mammoth and bringing back its tusks as a wedding gift for Kiri and Maisa. Before they set out, the villagers tell them a legend of the mammoth; that it is not an animal, but a cursed, suffering man who is seeking to find a pure and chaste woman to release him from his torment. During the hunt, Muru and Rodolf are ambushed by a group of Neanderthals, who wound Rodolf and steal their clothing and weapons. Neanderthal woman notices that Muru is not afraid of them and tells him that he may live if he can pass a test. Muru passes the test by not flinching as a Neanderthal wields a knife. Pleased, the Neanderthal chief tells him to return to his people and to never forget the mammoths are not animals. Muru returns to the village and tells Kiri that he was attacked by mammoths and that Rodolf is dead. Kiri does not believe him until he presents her with Rodolf's knife, which he says he recovered from the body. Muru is troubled by the lie, but Kiri declares her love for him and the two embrace. Muru, Kiri, and the village are awakened by the
Shadows Linger is a horror novel written by American author Dean Koontz, published in 1985. It is the third book in Koontz's "Trinity" trilogy, following Whispers and Madness, and followed by Twilight. Shadows Linger centers on the surviving members of the families portrayed in Whispers. The settings include rural Pennsylvania, and a mysterious otherworld termed "Elsewhere" by author Dean Koontz. The novel begins with a brief recap of the events portrayed in Whispers, and a description of the ongoing battle between the forces of good and evil. The protagonist, Mike Hanlon, attempts to commit suicide by overdosing on pills, but is saved by a mysterious force. He is then guided to an isolated cabin in Pennsylvania, where he meets an old man named Slim, who possesses supernatural powers, and a young girl named Penny, whose parents were killed in a car accident caused by the demon Tangina. Slim and Penny become the new "Trinity" of the trilogy, with Mike as the narrator. The trio is then forced to face a new threat from the forces of evil, as they are confronted by a powerful demon named Falco, who has been sent to Earth to eliminate them. Falco proves to be a formidable opponent, as he possesses the ability to transform into a large black dog, and can only be defeated by a combination of Slim's powers and a mysterious amulet. As the trio fights to survive, they are forced to rely on their own strengths and abilities, as well as
Shadows Linger is a horror fiction novel by American writer Dean Koontz, released in 2005. It is the eighth book in the Dean Koontz's Frankenstein Series, and the sequel to Naked Knuckle. The novel follows Chris Snow as he attempts to come to terms with the challenges in his life, namely his girlfriend's dire medical prognosis and the growing threat of the monster Promethean and his malevolent creator, Deucalion. Snow accompanies his girlfriend, Naomi, to the funeral of her estranged father, Granville. Chris is reluctantly drawn into the mysteries of Naomi's family history when he meets a distant relative named Merilyn Jekyll, who lives in an isolated rural area of California. Merilyn and her brother, Royce, tell Snow that Naomi's father had contacted them shortly before his death, and revealed that Merilyn had a twin sister named Naomi who died in 1964. The surviving twin, Merilyn, had suffered from a rare, incurable genetic disorder, and had been kept in isolation, as the condition was contagious. Merilyn also reveals that fifty-six years earlier, in 1938, her father, Sigmund Jekyll, had created a monster, and that the monster had killed her mother. Merilyn's story is confirmed by Deucalion, the monster's creator, who visits Merilyn and announces that he has come to kill her. The monster Promethean arrives first, however, and spares Merilyn's life, killing Royce instead. Promethean reveals that he and Deucalion are not monsters in the traditional sense, but are instead "makers," beings brought to life by the power of a
"I, the Jury" is a novel by American writer Erle Stanley Garner, published in 1940. It was the first novel to feature Garner's creation, the detective Perry Mason. The novel follows the investigation of a murder by Mason, a criminal defense attorney who is himself accused of the murder. The victim is Emily Grierson, a wealthy widow with many enemies. As Mason investigates the murder, he discovers that Mrs. Grierson's family is involved in a conspiracy to conceal the truth about her death. Mason's investigation leads him to a group of criminals who are using Mrs. Grierson's house as a hideout. The criminals are being pursued by the police, led by Detective Lieutenant Arthur Tragg of the homicide squad. Mason's client, alibi witness and girlfriend, Rita Burns, becomes increasingly frustrated with Mason's defense of her, as she is convinced that the police are going to arrest her shortly anyway, and she eventually confesses to the murder after Mason is arrested for her murder based on circumstantial evidence. At the trial, Mason's defense consists of attacking the credibility of the prosecution's witnesses. He succeeds in breaking the alibi of one witness and revealing the bias of another. The case goes to the jury, and Mason is acquitted.
"I, the Jury" is a novel by American writer Mickey Spillane, published in 1947. It was the first novel to feature Spillane's signature creation, private detective Mike Hammer. The novel opens with a mystery: a dead body is found in a vacant lot, his face obscured by a printed piece of paper. Detective Mike Hammer arrives on the scene and discovers that the paper is a Wanted poster, with a picture of himself on it. As Hammer investigates the murder, he discovers that the dead man was a small-time hood, and that the murder may be connected to a larger crime ring. He also learns that the dead man was seen with a mysterious woman, who may have been involved in the murder. As Hammer delves deeper into the case, he finds himself up against a powerful and ruthless criminal organization, and he must use all of his skills and resources to take them down. Along the way, he encounters a series of beautiful women, including the mysterious Miss Davis, who may or may not be involved in the murder. In the end, Hammer discovers that the murder was committed by a small time crook who tried to play in the big leagues, and he brings the killer to justice. Along the way, he also manages to clear his own name and earn the gratitude of the police.
Babbitt is a novel written by Sinclair Lewis and published in 1922. The novel is a critical look at American culture and society in the 1920s, and it critiques the values and beliefs of the middle class. Babbitt is an unambitious, conformist, and conventional man who is concerned with appearances and social status. He is a real estate broker in the fictional city of Zenith, and he is a member of several clubs and organizations, including the Booster Club and the Elks Club. Babbitt is also a family man, and he is married to Myra Babbitt with a son named Ted and a daughter named Verona. Throughout the novel, Babbitt is constantly trying to maintain his social status and to appear successful, even as his real estate business is struggling. He is also a firm believer in the American dream, and he is constantly trying to improve his social and financial standing. However, as the novel progresses, Babbitt begins to question his beliefs and values, and he starts to feel dissatisfied with his life and with the American society. Babbitt is considered to be one of the most important novels of the 20th century, and it has been widely read and studied since it was first published. It has also been adapted into a movie and several television shows.
Babbitt is a novel written by Sinclair Lewis and published in 1922. Centering on George F. Babbitt, an articulate, jargon-spouting businessman in the fictional city of Zenith, it delivers a harsh critique of American suburban life and culture. As he approaches middle age and feels a growing emptiness and dissatisfaction with his life and work, Babbitt is torn between his wife and a lover, his son and the son's radical friend, and between his own conservative viewpoints and those of modernism and eastern philosophical thought. With Babbitt, Lewis faced a dilemma similar to that of his contemporary, F. Scott Fitzgerald: to create a novel lasting for the ages, he felt he needed to represent a more sophisticated level of society than that which he personally inhabited, but he lacked the means to do so on a writer's salary. In Lewis's case, the solution was to set his novel in the present (the 1920s), make his protagonist a member of the middle class, and write frankly about the challenges of everyday life. In the process, said scholar R.W.B. Lewis, the author created "the first major fictional study of Middle America". Babbitt was a best-seller in its day and helped establish Lewis's reputation as one of the major American writers of the 20th century. The novel is frequently cited as an important work of early 20th-century literary realism and is often used in University courses analyzing that period in American literature. In 2001, the Modern Library ranked Babbitt 23rd on its list
As for Me and My House is a 1935 novel by American author Sinclair Lewis. The novel portrays the life of Dr. Luther Bliss, a physician in the small Midwestern town of Gopher Prairie. Over the course of the novel, Bliss's marriage falls apart as he realizes that his wife, Carol, does not share his ideals for a Utopian lifestyle in Gopher Prairie. Carol becomes increasingly frustrated with small-town life and begins an affair with a local man named Miles Bjornstam. Bliss, meanwhile, is focused on his work and hobbies, and does not realize the extent of his wife's discontent until it is too late. As for Me and My House is considered a sequel to Lewis's earlier novel Main Street, which also portrayed the struggles of an idealistic woman in a small town.
As For Me and My House is a novel written by American author Sinclair Lewis and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1930. The novel depicts the life of Dr. Luther Bliss, a minister of a Protestant American church in the fictional town of Fort Beulah, in the years leading up to and during the Great War. Historically, the book spans the timeframe from 1909 to the early 1920s, overlapping with the author's lifetime. The novel is critical of America's growing materialism and the emptiness of religious life in the United States as Dr. Bliss exchanges a passionate faith for what he believes is a more reasonable philosophy. Throughout the course of the novel, Bliss's standing in the community becomes increasingly tenuous, especially as he continues to take unpopular positions, such as his public criticism of America's entry into the war. The novel explores themes of religion, war, and capitalism through the lens of Dr. Bliss's own personal decline. As he swaps a life of the spirit for one of the flesh, his status in society declines accordingly. The publishing of this novel caused a rift between Lewis and his lifelong friend and editor, Maxwell Perkins, who considered the novel's treatment of religion to be dangerous and offensive.
Operation Typhoon Shore is a 1986 thriller novel by David P. Williams, set in Hong Kong just before the handover of Hong Kong in 1997. It follows the efforts of CIA agent Mack Bedford, sent to Hong Kong to kill Chinese spy Lu Cha, and British MI6 agent Roger Maynard, who is tracking a mysterious consignment of weapons known as "Operation Typhoon Shore". The two are ordered to work together, and in the process, they uncover a conspiracy involving the US, British and Chinese governments, and uncover a web of corruption which ultimately reveals a secret which the three governments have been hiding from the public for over 30 years. The novel moves between the two storylines of Bedford and Maynard, before they finally meet in Hong Kong. ## Plot The novel opens with the murder of the Chief of Station of the CIA in Beijing, China. It is then revealed that the murderer is non-other than the Chief of Station of the CIA in Moscow, who then flees to Moscow. Meanwhile, in Hong Kong, the British MI6 is investigating a mysterious cargo of weapons, which has appeared in the city's harbor, and is believed to be part of a larger consignment which is to be distributed by the Triads. The MI6 operative on the case, Roger Maynard, discovers that the weapons were manufactured in Muncie, Indiana, and orders the police to detain the American owner of the firm, Jack Bedford. At the same time, Mack Bedford, the brother of
Operation Typhoon Shore is a 1956 novel by Ian Macpherson, set during the Korean War. It follows the attempts of the protagonist, Lieutenant BillXBennett, to reach his love interest, Tan Yang, amid the backdrop of the Battle of Chosin Reservoir. Whilst on a scouting mission behind North Korean lines, Lieutenant Bennett discovers that the enemy is preparing to launch a major offensive, and decides to risk court-martial by sending a cryptic message back to base instead of the routine report he was ordered to deliver. The message is ignored, and a week later the North Koreans launch a assault against United Nations forces stationed at Chosin, killing many and driving the rest into the sea. Lieutenant Bennett and his men are ordered to hold a strategic pass to prevent the North Koreans from advancing further, and with a group of Marines and a tank, they hold off the enemy for several days. When a Marine is killed after exposing himself to draw fire away from the tank, Lieutenant Bennett moves into position and begins directing fire at the enemy, causing a commanding officer to order the tank to cover him and allow him to withdraw. The tank is immobilized by a hidden mine, and as the enemy closes in Lieutenant Bennett kills them with a grenade, but is himself wounded in the process. He attempts to make his way to an M4 Sherman tank controlling the road, but passes out before he can reach it. He is awakened by Tan
In January 2004, a truck conveys three prisoners from jail to a courthouse in Las Vegas: Jack (whose surname may never be revealed), his friend Frank, and a third man, Andy. Jack and Frank escape, but Andy stays behind, as he is severely injured during the escape. The two flee to a desert motel, where Jack calls his wife to bring him money and a car. Jack learns from his wife that he has been framed for the murder of the senator he was supposed to protect on the night that he escaped. She also tells him that the police are covering up the senator's murder and that Jack is the only one who can prove his innocence. Jack decides to return to the jail to get Andy, as he is the only one who can corroborate his story. Meanwhile, Frank wants to leave Las Vegas and asks Jack for money. When Jack refuses, Frank attacks him and tries to escape, but Jack subdues him and decides to leave him tied up in the motel room while he retrieves Andy. On the way, Jack's car breaks down. While he is fixing it, Frank escapes and reaches the motel first. He attacks Andy and tries to escape in Jack's car, but the police arrive and shoot him dead. Jack retrieves Andy and takes him to the courthouse, where he testifies in Jack's trial. However, the jury finds Jack guilty, and he is sentenced to death. After the trial, Jack's wife tries
Theme The novel explores the themes of guilt, innocence, and morality through the eyes of a cynical everyman who is forced to confront his own darkest desires. Thorne stated that "[he] tried to explore how any essentially 'good' person would behave if they were in a situation where doing the wrong thing – being evil – would get them what they wanted the most." vendetta between two powerful Mexican drug cartels. An anonymous narrator, who is an expert marksman and former military sniper, recounts his involvement in an elaborate robbery in California after he is forced into retirement following a botched job. He agrees to join a team of five other criminals, whom he refers to only by their assumed aliases: Leader, Driver, Destroyer, Freak, and Pilot. The group discusses their reasons for committing the robbery, which include purchasing a boat to sail away from their lives of crime, and settling scores with people who have done them wrong. Their target is a secure bunker in the middle of the California desert, which is known to house more than $10 million in cash. The group decides to take a "military approach" to the robbery, and the narrator begins to formulate a plan. They obtain military-grade equipment and vehicles, and destroy all evidence of their identities. On the night of the robbery, things do not go as planned. Freak is shot and killed during the initial entry into the bunker, and the remaining members of the group are forced to leave
Chinese Cinderella is a memoir by Adeline Yen Mah, first published in 1999. It is a story of her childhood, spent in China during the 1940s and 1950s. The book is a translation from Chinese to English, and was originally titled Chinese Cinderella: The Secret Story of an Unwanted Daughter, in 1999. The book describes the author's childhood, in which she was ostracized by her family for her mother's decision to marry a foreigner. The book also describes the author's struggles to survive in a new country, as well as her efforts to reconcile with her family. The following are the main characters in the book: Adeline Yen Mah, the author and narrator of the memoir. Ling, Adeline's mother. Jimmy, Adeline's father. Frank, Adeline's brother. John, Adeline's uncle. The book has been widely acclaimed for its honest portrayal of family life in China, and has been used as a text in many schools and universities. It has also been translated into many languages, including Chinese, German, French, Spanish, and Portuguese.
The novel is about an esteemed, exclusive English public school, called Porterhouse, with a long and illustrious history, a school that prides itself on its traditions and its alumni, including statesmen, scientists, and philosophers. The school's pupils are taught Latin and how to box, and preparation for their future roles in British society is a prime concern. Loathsome sports like soccer are beneath the dignity of Porterhouse boys - "We don't play games at Porterhouse. We achieve." The novel is divided into four books. Book One is set in 1963 and introduces the narrator, boy genius Oliver "Ollie" Reed, who has been offered a scholarship at Porterhouse, and his parents, who disapprove of public school education but are unwilling to pay the fees of a private school. Book Two, set in the next school year, sees Ollie struggle to fit in with his aristocratic classmates, and become the victim of bullying by a group of seniors, led by the school's captain, Hugo Latimer. Book Three, set during the summer holidays, describes how Ollie's home life is complicated by the arrival of his mother's boyfriend, Laurie, whose interests include poetry and socialism. The final book returns to Porterhouse, where the boys prepare for the annual cricket match against their arch-rivals, Rugby School.
The action takes place inOxford, against a background of scandalous undergraduate behavior (mainly at the University of Oxford). The novel depicts the experiences of a naive undergraduate, Charles Latimer, who encounters and becomes entangled with a circle of rich and decadent young aristocrats, the executive committee of the exclusive Porterhouse Club. The club is shown to be infested with parasites and decadents, and largely subsidized by its undergraduates, who are charged excessive fees for stewed rabbit, warmed-over biscuits, and weak college beer. The scandalous reputation of the club is largely due to the behavior of its chairman, Lord Rupert Porterhouse, the oldest undergraduate in the university's history. Lord Porterhouse appears to go to great lengths to avoid any kind of respectable society; for example, he barricades himself in his room for the last week of term, with a supply of vodka and a pornographic film, and has scandals rubbed into his door by the college servants. Latimer meets the club's president, Alan Duncan, shortly after arriving in Oxford. Duncan, a brilliant mathematician, is shown as a verbose and somewhat enigmatic character, fond of perplexing puzzles and cryptic remarks. He is extremely wealthy, owing to the fact that his father, an earl, has died, and he has independent means. Although he is a nobleman, he mixes only with the lowest elements of Oxford society. It is at his invitation that Latimer meets the dissipated Boris sidewalk, the self-styled 'comrade' of the chairman, and Jack washington, an American naive and romantic, who
In the summer of 1940, on the eve of his marriage to Sophie, Kurt von Hartmann, a Prussian aristocrat, is visited by his old friend, Heinrich Jung. He recalls their meeting ten years earlier when, as young men about to go their separate ways, they vowed to always tell each other the complete truth about their experiences, no matter what they may be. Heinrich asks Kurt whether he has ever been in love with anyone else since he became engaged to Sophie, and Kurt immediately thinks of his meeting with a mysterious woman named Laura d'Oriano five years earlier in Tunis. At the time, Kurt was serving in the German embassy, and one night he encountered Laura, who was living in a rundown palace with her mother and a servant. Laura, the daughter of an Italian prince and a Sicilian princess, was in despair over having to leave Tunisia shortly and said she would do anything to stay. Kurt, feeling responsible for getting her into this situation, said he would do what he could to help her. He spoke with the Italian ambassador, who was willing to provide travel papers to get her out of Tunisia if she were to marry an Italian citizen, but this was not what Laura wanted. She then appealed to Kurt to take her away, showing him a letter that she claimed was from an English lord who had promised to come for her, but whom she did not wish to wait for anymore. Kurt
In the year 399 AF (After the Foundation), Hari Seldon, using his psychohistorical predictions, establishes a new empire called Imperial Galaxia on the planet Gaia. His closest friend and ally is General Dagobert IX, who becomes Emperor by forging a constitutional monarchy with Seldon as his Prime Minister. The empire establishes a period of prosperity, but Seldon's greatest challenge still lies ahead: the next three centuries will not be governed by psychohistory, as there will be no single ruler strong enough to maintain unity within the galaxy. Instead, there will be thirty thousand independent governments, and the only hope for the future is that sooner or later one of them will unite all the others under its sway. Seldon's great-granddaughter, Wanda Seldon, is born in 488 AF. In 532 AF, at the age of 43, she marries Rustum "Rust"Rkrawl, a citizen of Askone, a former Galactic Empire province which became self-governing in 432 AF. After their marriage, the couple live in Perivale, the Rulkown manor on the outskirts of the Askone capital. When Wanda's husband dies twenty years later, Hari Seldon, now 85 years old, accompanies Wanda to Askone, where he lives the last three years of his life. Before he dies, Seldon completes the second volume of his psychohistorical memoirs, entitled The Psychohistorians, and adds a cryptic note: "Tomorrow comes the Mongol." No one understands the note, but shortly thereafter, Seldon's mentalic appearance begins to flicker and then disappears. Without the appearance, Seldon's body is transformed into a lifelike
The chief scientist of a country undergoes a political makeover and becomes President. Meanwhile, explorers discover a maze beneath a ruined city, where they encounter deadly creatures and a wizard who is really a vampire. The explorers are captured by the creatures and only one survives; he reports that the creatures have a civilization and their own language, and the scientist becomes fascinated with them. He has an idea to fuse the creatures with human DNA so they can survive in the sunlight, and arranges for several captured females to be brought to the surface. The scientist's second in command sabotages the experiment by substituting the captured females with clones of the President's wife, who is killed by the sunlight anyway. The scientist is outraged and has the second in command killed, then promotes a soldier to second in command. The soldier fears the scientist has become a vampire, but the scientist reveals he is merely a mad scientist. The soldier defeats the scientist and becomes the new President, with the scientist confined to a mental hospital.
The chief scientist of the New York Metropolitan Transport Authority, Dr. Arthur Cannister, is working on a secret project involving a laser beam weapon designed to destroy targets in seconds. Arthur isolates the design and construction of the weapon to the fortified basement of an abandoned hospital, where he lives with his wife Caroline and daughter Judy. He is under pressure to complete the weapon from Frank Volk, who has recently been made Deputy Commissioner of the MTA, and who insists that the weapon is urgently required for the ongoing war in Vietnam. Arthur is also harassed by Brett soon after the completion of the weapon. Arthur tests the weapon on a deserted island in a marsh near the hospital and is satisfied with its destructive power. Soon after, Judy is nearly killed by a speeding car, which Arthur realizes is a attempt on his life by Brett to get him to resign from his position so that Brett can take over the project. At home, Arthur finds Brett attempting to rape Caroline, and shoots him dead. Subsequently, Caroline becomes mentally unstable and is committed to a psychiatric hospital. With his home now exposed as the hiding place of the laser, Arthur moves to an old motel near the hospital. Under constant threat of death, he finishes the laser installation in the motel basement and prepares for a final showdown. Deputy Commissioner Volk, realizing that Arthur is on to him, attempts to force him to flee the country with his
Soren, a young barn owl, is captivated by his father's epic stories of the Guardians of Ga'Hoole, a mythic band of winged warriors who fought a great battle to save all of owlkind from the evil Pure Ones. While Soren is meant to inherit his father's leadership of the owl parliament, he yearns to instead become a Guardian. When his older brother Kludd maliciously destroys Soren's birthright cap, claiming superiority as the first-born son, Soren accidently falls from his family's nest and is kidnapped by the Pure Ones. The Pure Ones, feathered dinosaurs intent on wiping out owlkind to ensure the dominance of the air, infect Soren with the "hormone of darkness," a venom that clouds the mind and turns the victim violently insane. The only cure is the milk of the female owl queen. Soren's captor, the evil metal owl Nyra, keeps him imprisoned in her lair with the rest of her brood, where she infects them with the hormone and trains them as her own personal army. They include Soren's cousins, the cubs of Soren's aunt, Plum, who were kidnapped from their nest in an earlier raid. One of Soren's cousins is Gylfie, who is weak and sick but maintains her hope and courage despite their circumstances. Another is Twilight, who venerates Nyra and is extremely violent. Soren's sister, Eglantine, forms a resistance army of barn owls to combat the Pure Ones. Soren's mother, Marella, joins the fight, but is captured by Nyra and imprisoned with Soren. Kludd,
Sora and her brother, Egil, are impatient for the winter snows to thaw so they can resume their competition with their rivals, Hakon and Asa, to be the first to find the legendary ivory owl. Both families share a history of rivalry, treachery, and bloodshed; Years ago, Sora and Egil's uncle, Lodin, died at the hands of Hakon and Asa's father, who has now been banished from the kingdom. Rapid thawing causes a giant glacier to collapse directly onto the families' fishing village while they are out fishing, and they assume everyone in the village has been killed. Hakon and Asa's father returns to the village with a plan to deceive Sora and Egil's widowed mother, Sunniva, into thinking he is interested in romance. She is wary but interested, and as the two conduct courtship activities, Sunniva's children are suspicious of the man's true intentions. At the same time, Sora and Egil learn from a wandering tutor that the avalanche which destroyed their village was not an accident of nature, but an act of malicious magic. The tutor quickly flees the scene when Hakon and Asa's father shows up looking for Sora and Egil, and Sunniva angrily ends her courtship with the man. He retaliates by capturing Sunniva and murdering her, and Sora and Egil are spurred into action to avenge their mother. They attempt to recruit Hakon and Asa to their cause, but the siblings are loyal to their father. A battle ensues in which Hakon and Asa's father
Inferno features a protagonist named Robert Langdon, a Harvard University professor of symbology, and cryptologist, who is summoned by the Vatican in the middle of the night for an urgent new assignment. The cardinal of the Holy Roman Church, Maximillian Kohler, discusses an ancient prophecy with Langdon, wherein the world will be destroyed in a cataclysmic event, and the human race will be restored by a supreme being. Kohler presents Langdon with a cryptic poem and a mandate to find a mysterious cardinal. Upon examination of the poem, Langdon realizes it is a map, directing him to the exact location where he is to meet this cardinal. Following the clues, Langdon travels to the Baptistry of San Giovanni in Laterano, where he finds the cardinal, but shortly thereafter, the cardinal is attacked and killed. Langdon discovers a mask depicting the face of Satan and realizes the cardinal he met was an impostor. Kohler summons Langdon and reveals the true nature of his mission: to find a secretive brotherhood known as the Illuminati and to locate Dante's inferno, which they intend to use to destroy the world. Kohler gives Langdon a cryptex, to be opened only at their next meeting at the Piazza del Popolo. Langdon undergoes several trials, guided by a woman named Vittoria Vetra, who claims to be his student. They travel to the Piazza del Popolo, where Langdon opens the cryptex and finds a video card. Playing the card results in a message from Kohler, stating that he
Inferno features a geo-political thriller plot, set against the backdrop of global warming. It is predicted that the melting polar ice caps will release the Ebola virus, which is preserved in the ice, and simultaneously destroy the rice crops in Indonesia, resulting in the deaths of millions and the extinction of Hinduism and Buddhism, as the monks of Bali are drowned by the rising waters. A scientist working at the World Health Organization, Dr. Lana Whitby, is investigating the possible release of the Ebola virus and its links to the erasure of Buddhism and Hinduism in the coming years. The extinct religions would be replaced by Christianity, Judaism and Islam, whose holy books appear to be coded with messages that describe the coming apocalypse. Other subplots involve the marriage of the main character, Bertrand Zobrist, and the discovery of a previously unknown masterpiece by the artist Sandro Botticelli. Florence, Italy, is the setting for much of the novel. The city's many historical landmarks, including the Duomo, the Uffizi Gallery, the Palazzo Vecchio, and the Ponte Vecchio are described in great detail, as is the city's history. The narrative begins at the Viper's Nest, a bar located in the city's historic center. From there the action moves to the Ospedale Santa Maria Nuova, the Palazzo Vecchio, the Church of Santa Maria Novella, and the Florence airport. Other scenes take place in Venice and Istanbul.
The second book in the Earthsearch series, titled Earthsearch II, was written by Janet Edwards in 1993. It continues the story begun in Earthsearch, follows the same group of characters, and is set in the same fictional universe. In this book, the alien Posleen have arrived, and the human race is about to be wiped out. The novel begins three years after the end of the first book. It is again told using a first-person narrative by Bill Raith, a high school student who has been promoted to the rank of colonel in the Earth Defense Force. Raith is in command of the reconstituted United States Marine Corps, which has been expanded to include men and women from all the nations of Earth. In addition, there are the alien Marines, the Posleen, serving alongside human Marines. The Posleen have been genetically engineered by the Posleen to allow them to breathe Earth's atmosphere and to improve their eyesight in Earth's atmosphere. The Posleen and human Marines are kept separated, to prevent the possibility of a rebellion by the Posleen. After the arrival of the Posleen, the human race began to rebuild, using the knowledge and abilities of the Posleen to aid in the reconstruction. The most important of these is the interstellar teleportation ability of the Posleen. This is put to use in a project to reopen the Magellan fabricators, producing the means to produce more food for the rapidly expanding human population. This is vital because even with the aid
The second book in the Earthsearch series, it is again narrated by David Hutchins, who is visited by Kaplan on the first anniversary of colonies founding on Avalon. Kaplan delivers a message from Leland, mentioning that on the far side of the colony, a mysterious structure had been discovered. Hutchins becomes concerned about the delay of communications from the new world, and decides to go into hyperspace to check on the colony. He arrives to find the colony in confusion and under attack by unknown forces. Hutchins lands his spaceship near the mysterious structure and a group of colonists escape from it, telling Hutchins about the "squids", creatures who have been attacking the colony. Hutchins' spacecraft is damaged by an energy field emitted by the structure during the rescue attempt, and he is forced to send it into orbit around Avalon while he and the colonists take refuge in a cave. They find records left by the previous settlers, which indicate that the attacking creatures, " superseded humans" who were warlike and rejected morality and the "superseded humans" had built the structure as a fortress where they could wait for the colonists to land, so that they could obtain starships and conquer the galaxy. Hutchins and the colonists are joined by Colonelist fighters, and a battle ensues against the "superseded humans". The colonists and Colonelists are outnumbered, but using alien technology and weapons from the fortress, and with the assistance of paramilitary Kaplans, they win the battle. The colonelist leader,
The novel begins in the present with the narrator, Nina, recalling the story of her first love. She remembers the beginning of her relationship with Lucien, a handsome young man who saved her from a dangerous intrigue. Nina was a young girl from a good family, living with her aunt and uncle in a castle in the countryside. Her life was relatively isolated until Lucien arrived. Nina and Lucien’s relationship develops quickly, and they fall deeply in love. They are very happy together until a series of strange events begin to occur. These events include a mysterious woman appearing in the countryside, a ghostly carriage driving past the castle, and strange laughter in the night. Nina becomes increasingly worried about Lucien and his behavior. It becomes clear that Lucien is not who he says he is and that he has a dark past. He is haunted by his past and is trying to escape it. Nina is faced with a choice: she can either accept Lucien for who he is, or she can leave him and try to forget him. She chooses the latter and is able to move on with her life. The novel ends with Nina reflecting on her first love and how it changed her. She is now a stronger and more independent woman and is able to let go of the past and move forward with her life.
The novel begins in 1835 as William Boden, a wealthy English landowner, sits in his study staring out at the dark evening landscape. He is struggling to come to terms with the death of his wife, Catherine, whom he loved deeply. In an attempt to ease his mind, William recounts the story of his first love, Ellinor Davenport, and how she became his wife. William recalls his childhood in Norfolk, where he was raised by his aunt and uncle after the death of his parents. As a young man, he attended a local fair and was immediately captivated by the beauty of Ellinor, who was attending the fair with her family. William's family was of a higher class than the Davenports, and Ellinor's father, John, was wary of his interest in his daughter. Despite this, William and Ellinor found every opportunity to be together, and they fell deeply in love. When William's uncle died, he inherited his estate and became a wealthy man. He immediately asked John for Ellinor's hand in marriage, but John refused, citing the difference in their social status as too great a barrier. William threatened to elope with Ellinor, and John eventually agreed to the marriage, but only after William promised to wait one year. The couple's happiness was short-lived. On the eve of their wedding, Ellinor's mentally ill brother, George, kidnapped her and took her to a nearby cave, where he kept her captive. William searched desperately for Ellinor, eventually finding her after a few
Condemnation is a novel written by Henry James, first published in 1904. The novel is about a young woman named Sibyl Vane, who is deeply in love with a wealthy and powerful Duke. Despite the fact that the Duke is already engaged to another woman, he reciprocates Vane's love. The Duke's friend, Lord Henry Wotton, however, convinces Vane that the Duke's love is not genuine and that she should seek to be a symbol of something, not a real woman. Vane heeds this advice and begins to practice being a personification of virtue. She ultimately fails in this endeavor and dies as a result of her failed attempt at seducing the Duke's fiancee's brother.
In 2009, biochemical warfare grips the state of Tennessee. Emily Wright, an agent for the Centers for Disease Control, arrives in the small town of Keeble, which has been hit especially hard by the violent tornado that preceded the release of the biological weapon. Hours earlier, Nike Prep, an elite boarding school 30 miles away, collapsed in on itself, killing or infecting all 700 of its students. Emily's mission is to find the students' parents and relay the news that their children are dead. She is joined by Mike Wilson, a local police officer, who becomes her guide, and together they move through the wind-torn and radioactive countryside in a borrowed SUV. Emily's marriage is strained; her husband, Lars, has become distant and uninterested in having sex with her for months, which Emily suggests is due to menopause. As they press on, Emily becomes increasingly detached from reality. She begins to suffer visions and hallucinations in which her clothes are torn from her body and she is assaulted by unknown entities. Along the way, she and Mike encounter several bizarre characters, including a taxidown scavenger who offers them tea and a disfigured man who attacks them with a baseball bat. After finding the mutilated body of a truck driver impaled on a fence, Mike and Emily take refuge in an abandoned house, where Emily appears to be raped by the unknown beings she has seen throughout the day. Mike discovers her and is horrified by what has happened to her.
In the 19th century, the family of a devoted Portuguese Catholic woman, Ana, is forced to flee to Brazil to escape the violence of Napoleon's invasion of Portugal. They settle near São Paulo, but Ana's husband dies shortly after their arrival. Ana's mother, Judite, secretly sells herself into sexual slavery to earn money for her daughter's marriage, and dies a few years later, her health broken from her sexual servitude. Ana marries a wealthy Portuguese merchant and has a daughter, also named Esther, but her husband dies in a shipwreck. Ana marries a wealthy Brazilian, João, and has a second daughter, Flora. When Esther is sixteen, she is courted by a boy her age, Coutinho, and they become engaged. One day, Esther and Coutinho visit a group of poor Irish immigrants living in the home of a priest, and Esther is attracted to an Irish boy named Daniel. She and Daniel begin to meet in secret, and she eventually becomes pregnant by him. She tells Daniel that she intends to marry him, but he tells her that he is already married. Esther is sick for most of her pregnancy, and her mother, noticing that her belly is growing, assumes that she is pregnant by Coutinho. When Esther gives birth to a boy, João throws her out of the house, and she is forced to give the child to Coutinho's mother, who raises the boy as Coutinho's son. Years later, Coutinho marries Esther, and they have a son together, but he
In the 19th century, the arrival of the steam engine and the construction of the DOM TUFFA railroad gives rise to new hopes among the people of waves, a small village in the Portuguese countryside. New opportunities appear for the inhabitants of the Schist Village, but the hardships of rural life and the lack of modernizing the farm, run by the atheist and pragmatic header João Moura, make the lives of his children difficult. João's eldest daughter, Maria, marries a wealthy man and moves to Oporto, while his second daughter, Esther, embarks on an unfortunate love affair with the railroad worker Celestino, who is killed in an accident shortly after. Esther gets pregnant with Celestino's child and is forced by her father to abandon her newborn baby, who is left at the train station, thus leaving her in danger of insanity. Esther's life takes on a new meaning when she meets the orphan Joana da Conceição, who helps her get a job as a kitchen helper at the Fortunata Institute, a republican and cosmopolitan Oporto establishment frequented by the city's high society, led by its director, Armando Vieira. Esther finds in the institute an environment contrary to the ideas of her father and the rigid customs of her village. She learns about politics and the new theories of the period (such as Darwin's theory of evolution), improving her reading and writing skills. Esther befriends the naturalist Miguel, who teaches her about evolution, and the republican Simão, with whom she discusses
As the novel opens, Bahram Chubineh is mourning the loss of his wife Sassan, describing her to a servant as embodying the " Attributes of God". His two daughters, Golnar and Shireen, are grieving as well, but Bahram quickly grows frustrated with their lack of restraint, telling them "In this land, a woman is valued according to her restraint". Golnar and Shireen are the daughters of Sassan, and the nieces of Fereshteh, Bahram's wife who has recently passed away. Though Bahram never loved Sassan, he respected her and agreed to marry her because of her intelligence, wit, and beauty. Meanwhile, Golnar has been promised to Khosrow Javid, and Shireen is soon to be married to Bahram's brother Barat. Shireen is very beautiful, but has a sharp tongue and an ungovernable temper. Though Bahram favors Golnar, he fears Shireen's temper will bring her to ruin, ultimately leading to the ruin of her family as well. In order to keep Shireen from bringing shame upon her family, Bahram sends her to live in a village far from the city of Quchan, hoping that separation from her loved ones will cause her to improve her temper. Golnar is very much in love with Khosrow and hopes to become engaged to him soon, but she is conscious of the fact that her father has not yet agreed to the marriage. Several years later, Bahram is told that Shireen has become a prostitute in the village, and has brought shame upon her family. Bahram decides
Shokuh is the daughter of a wealthy merchant who resides in the Iranian town of Quchan. Shokuh's father has aspirations for her to marry rhe handsome and pious Karim, the son of a wealthy and prominent religious family, but Shokuh does not return Karim's affections, and fears him. An avalanche strikes Quchan, resulting in fatalities, and Shokuh's father is one of the victims. The townspeople avoid Shokuh as she is now considered a "bad omen". Subsequently, Shokuh's mother falls ill. Desperate, Shokuh seeks the help of Hakim, a local healer. Hakim gives her a potion to administer to her mother, but warns her that it must not get wet. Shortly after, Karim arrives at the house and attempts to kiss Shokuh. She pushes him away, and the potion spills. Hakim angrily arrives at Shokuh's house, accusations flying between him and Karim. The two men fight, and Karim is killed. Hakim takes Shokuh away with him to his home in the mountains, and Shokuh slowly falls in love with the healer. Hakim, however, is betrothed to another woman, and his betrothed's family disapproves of his friendship with Shokuh. The two are forced to flee to the plains, and Shokuh gives birth to a boy, Khosrow. Shokuh's mother has meanwhile married Ali Akbar, a widower, and they are able to send Khosrow to Kabul to live with them and receive an education. Fifteen years pass, and Khosrow returns from Kabul, having received an education and grown into a young man. He meets
Following the completion of the Pact between the four races, Arithon s'Ffalenn, the Master of Shadow, journeys across Deshir with Dakar, his most trusted adviser. They are followed by Feithan and her clan, who wish to swear oaths of loyalty to Arithon. In Orvandir, they meet with the s'Valerient family and their following, who also wish to swear oaths of loyalty. The combined group travels to Halwythwood, where they are joined by the clans of s'Brydion and s'Ahelas. The entire group swears the Bloodpact Oath on the sword Alithiel, making them allies in the coming war against the Shadow Master. While in Halwythwood, Arithon and Feithan fall in love and become lovers. Arithon's half-brother, Lysaer s'Ilessid, begins to gather an army to destroy the Master of Shadow, even though he has broken no law. Lysaer's army, composed of thousands of soldiers, travels across the southern part of the continent. In the city of Jaelot, the mayor's daughter, Talith, is kidnapped by a pirate named Karfael. The pirate is supposedly working for the Shadow Master, but in truth, he is working for the pirate king, Sulfin Evend. Sulfin Evend is secretly building a fleet of ships to destroy the Master of Shadow. Talith's kidnapping was a ploy to lure Arithon into a trap. Arithon and Feithan, along with the others, leave Halwythwood to rescue Talith. Along the way, they meet a wise woman named Athili, who tells Arithon that he must learn to control his abilities, or he will be consumed
Following the completion of the Invasion of Mordva, Arithon s'Ffalenn, the Master of Shadow, takes respite in the Idrian Isles, while his combined forces of Shinji, Vesser, and Dalvian clansmen sail back across the Cildein Ocean for the West. His partnership with Lysaer s'Ilessid remains an uneasy one, despite their combined victory against their common enemy, and Arithon is haunted by the visions of his severing of the Shandian seals on the Athili Shaft gateway, which has released an ancient evil. His worries are compounded by the news that Lysaer s'Ilessid has fathered a son, Kevor, with the Queen of Shand, and that winter approaches with no sign of the s'Ffalenn prince's return to his kingdom of Rathain. In the kingdom of Havish, High Priest Cerebeld arrives at Innish to oversee the ceremony for the coronation of Meiglin s'Dieneval, the heir apparent to the Havish throne who is with child. The princess is beloved by her people, and many would willingly see her marry for love rather than political gain. Cerebeld, wary of the influence of the Fellowship Sorcerers, hopes to curb their power by directing Princess Meiglin to wed his young protégé, the scholar Milesian s'Accendier, rather than the Master of Shadow, as would be her right. Arithon's ship is nearly wrecked in a squall, which he survives due to the intervention of the sea sprite, Yluaine, who is attracted to him. He swims to an island, where he is nursed back to health by the old wise woman,
The novel is about a young boy, Keitaro, who lives with his uncle, Yukio, in Tokyo. Yukio is an art dealer and often has Keitaro assist him at work, which primarily involves delivering art to clients. Keitaro is an apathetic boy who lacks direction in life, as shown by his sporadic attendance of college. One day, Yukio is asked to evaluate a collection of paintings in a small town located in the countryside, and he brings Keitaro along with him. While there, Keitaro meets a quirky and straightforward girl named Narisu, whom he finds himself inexplicably drawn to. Upon returning to Tokyo, Keitaro gradually develops a bond with Narisu, despite the physical distance between them. Meanwhile, Yukio grows increasingly worried about Keitaro, as he is aware of the latter's apathetic tendencies and believes that he is wasting his potential. As Keitaro's relationship with Narisu deepens, Yukio takes him on a trip to Kyoto, where they meet a woman named Kinoko, who runs a small teahouse. Kinoko tells Yukio that she once had a relationship with a man who was emotionally distant, similar to Keitaro. The trip to Kyoto prompts Yukio to reflect on his own past, specifically a relationship he had with a woman named Chie. Upon returning to Tokyo, Yukio decides to confide in Keitaro about his relationship with Chie and the lessons he learned from it. The novel explores the themes of emotional connection, personal growth, and the importance of taking action to shape one's own life. It
The story is about Keitarō Arima, a student at a preparatory school in Tokyo, who is struggling to find the purpose of his life. One day, he meets a woman named Chikae Sugimura, who inspires him to pursue his dreams and find true meaning in his life. The story follows Keitarō's journey as he tries to find the courage to pursue his dreams and discovers the true meaning of friendship and love. The title, "Kokoro", is a Japanese word that refers to the heart, or the soul of a person and the novel explores the complex relationships between people and the importance of finding one's own "kokoro". The novel also touches on the themes of friendship, love, loss, and personal growth, and how these experiences can shape a person's "kokoro".
Schilder-boeck is the name of the fictional book depicted in Woody Allen's 1995 film Mighty Aphrodite. The book is a collection of erotic paintings, and is featured in a scene where Allen's character, David, attempts to retrieve it from the home of one of the models for the paintings, who is blind. The book also appears in Allen's 1986 film Hannah and Her Sisters, as the favorite book of Hannah's husband, Mickey.
Schilder-boeck is the title of a novel by the Dutch writer Jan Hendrik van't Zelfden. The title translates as "Painter's Book" or "The Book of Painters." The novel is an autobiography of the painter Cornelius Schilder, told by himself as he lies dying in a hospital, remembering his life and the people in it. The book is a collection of twenty-three short stories, presenting the exploits of Schilder and his friends Gai, Tsjalie, and the poet Luca Comens. The three men are all painters, and they live in Amsterdam, Brittany, and the South of France respectively. Their stories are told in turn. The friends meet in France, and agree to meet again in Amsterdam. However, Tsjalie commits suicide before he can leave France. Schilder and Gai become close friends and travel to Brittany, where they meet Luca Comens. They live together for some time, and have many adventures together. However, their travels are cut short by World War II, after which they go their separate ways. The rest of the novel describes the events of the war and its effects on the three painters' lives. They all survive the war, but decide not to see each other again.
novelty seeker and rogue who desires recognition and respect, finds himself adventure-bound when he stumbles upon a mystical blue pearl. The owner of the pearl, the merchant Yodo, sells the item to Cugel, but not before Yodo's alien foe Hieronymus sets his sights on the gem. After making a wager with Yodo, Hieronymus follows Cugel, attempting to steal the pearl back and subsequently sending Cugel on a kaleidoscopic journey filled with treacherous wizards, beautiful women, malicious spirits, and otherworldly beings. Cugel's Saga comprises four books originally published between 1983 and 1993. The series was revised and reedited between 1995 and 1996, with a new sequence of events separating the first three books. These newly added scenes involve a deaf-mute girl named Iucounu, who writes hieroglyphic messages in her bloodstream. Cugel's journey ends with his dying in the arms of a green woman named Rhialta, who hails from a distant star system.
Shane Galanter is a young man from a wealthy family in Las Vegas, who is going through some difficult times alongside his wife, Melissa. They are experiencing marital problems, and Shane is also struggling to make sense of his relationship with his father, David, who is mired in alcohol and gambling. All these problems are too much for Shane, who decides to go on a vision quest alone in the canyons, to try and figure out his life. While in the canyon, he meets a mysterious and wise old man named Joe, who takes Shane under his wing and shows him the meaning of life through stories and adventures. Joe helps Shane to understand the importance of family, friendship, and love, and to realize that he must not take his life for granted. After this experience, Shane returns home with a new lease on life and is able to save his marriage with Melissa and reconcile with his father. Does this seem like a relevant summary of the plot for Canyons?
required reading for all students at Caldwell Union High School, an isolated rural school in the pine forests of the Sierra Nevada mountains in California. The novel concerns a group of young rebels, victims of the "transfer" system that allows students from troubled homes in the area to move to CUHS, and explores the various ways in which they react to the restrictive atmosphere of the school. When it is revealed that one of the students, Susan Landers, has been concealing a rape at the hands of the school's principal, Rollie Smith, the school's environment of repression and denial is shattered, and the students are forced to reevaluate their own beliefs and ideas as a result. The novel caused a minor scandal when it was published, as its depiction of life at Caldwell Union mirrored those of real-life rural schools, and because of its explicit language and sexual content. The novel was subsequently banned from libraries and bookstores across the country, and even its author, Taiwanese-American poet Ivy Low, found herself subject to scrutiny and censorship. Nonetheless, "Canyons" became a national bestseller and inspired a generation of young readers with its unflinching look at the American high school experience.
Vespers in Vienna is a novel by Edward Rutherfurd published in 2007. It is the story of the generations of three families who live in Vienna from the mid-19th century to the early 20th century. The three families are the Schumachers, the Grabbes, and the von Hildebrandts, and the story follows the members of these families through the events of Austrian history from the failed revolution of 1848 to the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918. The novel describes the lives of artists and musicians, as well as the ambitions of the Austrian elite. The story begins in 1838 as Matthias Schumacher, a brewer, and his wife Anna have a son whom they name Anton. Anton grows up to be a musician and becomes a friend of the composer Franz Schubert. Anton falls in love with Constanze, a friend of Schubert's, but due to a misunderstanding, Constanze marries another man. Anton goes on a concert tour throughout Europe, and when he returns to Vienna, he finds Constanze divorced and unmarried. The two marry and have five children. Matthias Schumacher's brother Josef owns a wine tavern which is located on the Danube canal. He marries Anna's sister, Maria, and they have a son named Johann. Johann becomes a priest and is elected to the Austrian parliament as a member of the Catholic Party. He falls in love with and marries Franziska, a piano teacher, and they have eight children. The third family is that of the Grabbes, who are German
Vespers in Vienna is a novel by British author Patricia Mayor. It follows Paul Hoffman, a young German spy working for the Abwehr, who is sent to Vienna to discover the truth about the suicide of a Romanian prince at the Hotel Imperial. During his investigation, Paul meets and falls in love with an Austrian resistor named Marie, who possesses a mystical ability to foretell the future. As he works to unravel the mystery of the prince's death, Paul is forced to question the loyalty of those around him, including his own, and the true nature of his relationship with Marie, whose own mysterious past slowly comes to the surface.
The Wheel on the School is a novel written bybery winner, membrane Kerenyi, and first published in 1967. The story follows a group of boys at a boarding school who discover a bicycle wheel hidden in the woods. The wheel becomes a secret symbol of unity and power for the boys, and they eventually use it to revolt against the oppressive rules of the school. The novel explores themes of power, authority, and the struggle for freedom. The boys line up in rows of ten, and march to and from "classes" (which are more like military drills), and all of their movements and activities are regulated by a large clock on the wall, which rings loudly throughout the day, signaling the beginning and end of each activity. They spend their days studying lifeless textbooks and learning mathematics, literature, history, and geography, which is nothing more than ruthless memorization. The boys are not allowed to speak to each other, or even step outside the school grounds. However, there is one place where the boys can escape the harsh rules of the school, and that is the woods, which are right next to the school. One day, while playing in the woods, a group of boys stumble upon a mysterious bicycle wheel hidden under a pile of leaves. The wheel is the key that unlocks the boys' power to rebel against the oppressive regime of the school. However, the boys must first learn how to work together and unite as one before
The Wheel on the School by effects of methane_hydrocarbon_seepage_(major_ upgraders_and_pipelines) pseudonim John Bruen (published 1973) is a satirical novel, billed as "an absurd cryptographic novel", set in Ireland during the late 1960s and early 1970s, in the midst of the Troubles. It follows the adventures of aroup of supposedly destitute Irish travelers who arrive in a small Irish village in Apparently, the book contains a great deal of clever, esoteric humor and cryptography, and extensively reflects the authors's preoccupation with numbers and numerology, specifically the number 23; the novel's title refers to W. Eugene Smith's photo essay "Nuits de Paris", which itself is an anagram of "Hi wheels on school".
Battle begins between the Imperial Japanese Navy and US Navy in the Java Sea, the first major engagement between Japan and the United States in World War II. On the same day, the Japanese high command issues its orders for the invasion of Malaya, the Philippines, and the Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia). Lieutenant Commander Masami Takahashi arrives at Pearl Harbor to serve as the senior naval air observer with the Main Body of the Japanese invasion force. His mission is to provide air cover for the invasion of the Philippines. The story then shifts to the point of view of US Navy Lieutenant Tom Holden, aboard the destroyer USS Porter, who is ordered to escort a group of PT boats to the Philippines. After a brief stop in Manila, the PT boats are sent to the South China Sea to attack Japanese shipping. Tom's friend, Lieutenant (junior grade) "Rusty" Ryan, commander of PT-22, is the first to spot a large Japanese force. The PT boats decide to make a run for it, but the faster Japanese ships open up on them with guns and torpedoes. PT-13 is hit and sinks immediately, PT-17 is also hit and sinks soon after, and PT-19 is hit and sinks as Tom watches from the deck of the Porter. Tom is knocked unconscious during the engagement, and wakes up to find that the Porter has been hit and is slowly sinking. The surviving PT boats pick up the survivors, and Tom is put aboard
Beth Pittman is a high school student in a small California town. On her way home after a night out with her friends, she is assaulted and raped by a masked man on a golf course while her best friend, Amy, looks on helplessly. Despite the circumstances, Beth is hesitant to tell the police for fear that no one will believe her, because of her sexual history, and because the assault occurred on the golf course belonging to a popular local businessman, Miller fan balancing an aluminum baseball bat on his shoulder. The rapist is never identified and the investigation stalls. No one believes Beth, neither her friends nor her family, and she is alienated and withdraws from everyone. Then classmates of hers are murdered, and the police finally take her claims seriously. Beth's brother, navy SEAL Ted, returns on leave to help protect her. A very capable and lethal killer, Tedfan intensifying volcanic eruptions across Indonesia. Soon Ted and Beth's father, Tom, are also helping in the manhunt. With the murderer suddenly focused on Beth, all three Pittmans are in danger.
The Brief and Frightening Reign of Phil is a novel written by George Saunders. The story follows the events after the death of a tyrannical pastor's daughter, which leads to the selection of an unlikely candidate for mayor of a small, isolated, and nearly forgotten town called Grange. The new mayor, Philip Hall, has big plans to revitalize the town and bring it into the 21st century, but his plans have unintended consequences and the town's residents, accustomed to their isolated and slowly decaying way of life, resist his efforts. The novel explores themes of isolation, leadership, and the limitations of political power. It is a darkly comic and satirical story that offers a glimpse into a dysfunctional and bizarre small town.
The Brief and Frightening Reign of Phil is a novel written by Jesse Ball, published in 2007. The novel follows the story of Philip Avery as he assumes the helm of Hell. Philip, assisted by his friend Richard, must confront what it means to be Satan, ease the suffering of Hell's citizens, and deal with his ailing father's impending death.
Out walking her dog in the snow, forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan hears a cry for help coming from a dilapidated house. When she investigates, she finds a fresh human skull crushing the chest of a man buried in a shallow grave. A forensic investigation reveals that the dead man was a migrant worker who disappeared nearly three decades ago. But Brennan soon discovers that the case may not be as cold as she first thought when a second body is found. As she digs deeper, Brennan is led on a chase through the past, and into a confrontation with a killer who has been hiding in plain sight.
'Bones' is a novel written by Suzanne Collins. It is the first book of the 'Underland Chronicles', followed by 'Terra Covena', 'Locke Auctor', and 'The Silver Mask'. The novel describes the adventures of a fourteen-year-old girl named Susan, who feels that she does not fit into her family, and decides to run away. She ends up meeting a man who introduces her to the world under New York City, and she becomes entangled in a struggle for the throne of that underground kingdom. There she meets the witty and wise William Boone, also known as 'Whiskers', the current king of the Underlanders, and Darwin, a highly evolved, albino rat who is telepathically receptive and extraordinarily intelligent. Susan soon finds out that there are many kingdoms underground, and that her appearance is not accidental. The other kingdoms are preparing for war against Boone's kingdom, and she has been brought to the Underlands to play a key role in the coming conflict. As Susan tries to come to grips with her new life, she is constantly bombarded by the mysteries of the Underlands. Even simple concepts like day and night do not have the same meaning underground. The Underlanders' concepts of time are also quite different from the surface dwellers. Each Underlander keeps track of time based on the number of "bells" that have occurred since the founding of their kingdom. As Susan adjusts to her new life, she finds herself more and more attracted to Boone, but nervous about the fact
Three separate storylines intertwine in an ancient citadel untouched by the sun. In the first, a cursed warrior seeks revenge against the sorcerer who betrayed him. In the second, a young woman attempts to escape the clutches of an unscrupulous tycoon. In the third, a talented but tormented musician goes to extreme - and deadly - lengths to ensure a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
The return of a long-lost artifact to a historian brings both holy salvation and unspeakable horror to a small New England town in the form of a demonic vampire reluctantly summoned from Hell to serve as a guardian for the artifact and those who possess it. The historian and fugitive Mike Holliday, on the run from various enemies and wrongfully accused of murdering his girlfriend, finds sanctuary in the isolated town ofitya, hidden deep in the forests of New England, and inhabited by a small number of eclectic locals who are intensely secretive about their activities. Holliday plans to use it as a hideout as he attempts to uncover the truth about the disappearance of his ancestor, colonist Fundamentals who founded Ittysa. fundamentals came to the New World along with his young daughter Anne, who was destined to be married to physician Jonathan Merritt, in order to study the demonic vampire and learn its secrets, which are believed to be the key to eternal life. Disillusioned with his faith and alcoholic, Holliday discovers a bronze plate buried in his backyard which details the whereabouts of Fundamentals' journal. Against the warnings of policeman Paul Thorson, who has a history with Holliday and is assigned to keep tabs on him, Holliday proceeds to Ittysa's neighboring town ofKingsmouth, where he finds the journal in a hidden compartment in a wall of an abandoned house. Meanwhile, Kingsmouth's clergy, including Father Joe Coral, who is struggling with his faith, and priestess Maria Milano, who embraces
The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution is a 2009 book by biologist Richard Dawkins, expanding upon a series of lectures given at the University of Oxford in 2008. In the book, Dawkins argues that biological evolution is the single most important idea ever to have occurred to human beings, and that its acceptance is not the result of a blind search for a theory to explain life, but of an honest consideration of the evidence before us. The book is divided into nine chapters: "The Technological Revolution", "Some Like it Hot", "The Ice Age", "The Camera Never Lies", "The Evidence Expands", "In the Beginning", "Darwin's Dangerous Idea", "The Peaceful Virus", and "Conclusion: The Greatest Show on Earth". After a brief introduction, the first chapter serves as an overview of the book and explains the author's intentions for writing it. In the second chapter, Dawkins discusses the history of the idea of natural selection and how it was not created by Charles Darwin, but discovered by him. The third chapter focuses on the phenomenon of evolutionary stasis and the question of why species have not undergone more changes throughout their existence on Earth. The fourth chapter looks at the phenomenon of rapid evolution in certain species under extreme conditions, such as during a heat wave. The fifth chapter discusses the geological evidence for evolution and the conclusion that life on Earth is billions of years old, despite the fact that many people believe it to be only thousands
"The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution" is a novel written by Richard Dawkins in 2009. It is a sequel to his 2004 book "The Ancestor's Tale". The book focuses on evolutionary biology and natural selection as the driving forces for evolution. It highlights the ways in which natural selection has influenced the evolution of life on Earth. The novel also discusses the theory of common descent, which states that all life on Earth shares a common ancestor. It argues that natural selection is the primary force that has shaped the evolution of life, and that evolution is a process that is still ongoing. The book also covers the topic of speciation, which is the process by which new species form. It uses examples such as the finches of the Galápagos Islands to illustrate the concept of natural selection. The book also discusses the idea of a "selfish gene", which is a gene that is programmed to replicate itself regardless of its impact on the organism as a whole.
The novel begins with the central character, John Self, receiving news of his father's death. Raymond Thomas Self, known as "Tom", has suffered a heart attack while sitting in his car outside the house of his mistress, and died instantly. John Self, who is in his late thirties, reflects on his relationship with his father, whom he both admires and dislikes. He remembers Tom's dedication to his work as a portrait painter, a career that brought him neither wealth nor fame, and his apparent inability to show any emotion, love or affection. Despite this, John also recalls how Tom always protected and provided for the family. John Self's mother, Jane, married Tom when she was in her early twenties. Her first husband, Philip, died in the Second World War when his plane was shot down over the Atlantic. She had two children with Philip, Robert and Anne, and then a third, John, with Tom after the war. John is convinced that his father had wanted more children but that his mother did not. Though she was in her forties when she had him, John Self feels that his mother always regarded him as something of a disappointment. John Self is a successful writer, but he is dissatisfied with his work, feeling that it is superficial and mercenary. He is particularly disappointed with himself for having sold the film rights to his latest novel, which he feels is a betrayal of his art. He is worried that he has no real
Gilbert Begayne is a successful New York lawyer whose wife has recently died. Begayne's grief is so overwhelming that he decides to retire from his career and leave the United States. After a prolonged voyage, he settles in a quiet Dutch town, where he meets a woman named Ellen, who is married to a drunkard named Otto. The relationship between Begayne and Ellen quickly grows intimate, and they begin an affair. However, their happiness is short-lived, as Otto soon discovers their secret and attacks Begayne. In the ensuing struggle, Otto falls to his death. Begayne is arrested and put on trial, and he realizes that he faces either imprisonment or execution. Knowing that his fate is sealed, he returns to the United States, where he hopes to escape justice. However, he is quickly arrested and returned to the Netherlands. As he awaits his execution, he reflects on his life and the events that have led him to this point.
The novel begins in Boston, just before Christmas 1999. The protagonist, Charlie Stewart, learns that his father, Colonel William Stewart, has suffered a heart attack and is in a coma. Charlie sets out to find his sister, Rachel, who is studying in Paris. He finds Rachel living with her boyfriend, Jean-Paul, and learns that she has not spoken to her mother, Eleanor, in years, and that she is not interested in returning home. Charlie then decides to leave Rachel in Paris and travel to their family's home in rural Maine, where he finds his mother catatonic and the family home in disarray after years of his mother's isolation. Charlie's father was the longtime superintendent of the family's paper mill, and the mill's future is in doubt since his father's illness. Charlie's efforts to modernize the mill and save it from bankruptcy provoke the wrath of his neighbors, who rely on the mill for employment. Charlie begins a relationship with Natalie, a young woman from town whose husband, Dave, has gone missing in the Maine woods. Charlie soon becomes the prime suspect in Dave's disappearance. An ex-cop named Cal Shanner suspects that Dave was murdered, and that Charlie is responsible. Meanwhile, Charlie's mother has begun to improve, and she gradually reveals details of her past to Charlie that suggest that she may have had a hand in Dave's disappearance. Charlie's sister, Rachel, finally arrives in Maine, and she and Charlie learn that their mother apparently played a role in the deaths
The novel begins in Stockholm, Sweden, whereMercenary lieutenant Jack Connery is recalled from vacation to help rescue a team of researchers that have gotten lost in the Arctic. Amidst the rescue, Jack finds out that the researchers, hired by an anonymous company, are actually looking for " Aragon ", a hidden fortress that is believed to contain a fortune in gold. Jack also finds a diary written by a Nazi scientist during World War II detailing the use of penguins as part of an experimental rocket fuel that could be used to reach the moon. The fuel, however, was defective, and the scientist, along with other Nazis, were put to death by the SS after they attempted to flee with the diary. Jack decides to continue the research and locates the fortress. He finds the penguin zoo that the Nazis built and retrieves the fuel. Jack then travels toasisxtensionwhere he meets up with Suzie, who is researching a lost civilization. Together, they go to Venus where they find the lost civilization, which turns out to be the ancient Mayans. The Mayans tell Jack that the key to unlocking the fuel's potential is "Frostbite", which is produced by a particular flower that grows only on the roof of the world, thus providing him with a reason to go to the Himalayas. Jack's boss, Desiree, recruits him for a job inHong Kongwhere he prevents the assassination of a Filipina pop star. While there, he discovers that the assassination attempt is connected to
3 Maccabees, also known as 3 Machabees, is a deuterocanonical book. It is one of the books of the Apocrypha that were included in the original King James Version of the Bible. The book was written in Koine Greek somewhere between the mid-first century BC and the early first century AD. It was originally written for Jewish readers and so avoids overt Christian themes. Its themes instead are the persecution of the Jews and the power of prayer. In the story, the Jewish priest Mattathias and his son Judah are tasked with the responsibility of ritually cleansing the sanctuary in Jerusalem when it is defiled by the Syrians under the King Antiochus Epiphanes. They refuse to carry out the cleansing until the time is right. When the time comes, they are denied permission to perform the cleansing. Judah becomes angry and kills a Syrian guard, and then he and his followers begin a rebellion against the Syrians. After Mattathias's death, Judah succeeds him as leader of the rebellion. Along with his brother Jonathan and his followers, Judah defeats the Syrians and succeeds in cleansing the sanctuary. This allows them to resume the ritual sacrifices that had been interrupted by the Syrian occupation. The story concludes with a description of Judah's death. He is wounded in battle but survives. When the enemy realizes that he is still alive, they call for a physicist, who uses a magical amulet to put Judah into a deathlike sleep. In the end, Judah is able
3 Maccabees, also known as 3 Kingdoms, is a book written in Greek by an anonymous author in the mid-2nd century BCE. The author is traditionally called Ptolemy. The book presents itself as a historical account of events surrounding the Maccabean uprising against the Hellenistic Selucid dynasty of Syria. It describes the campaign of King Antiochus IV Epiphanes to suppress Judaism, the rise of the family of the Maccabees, and the successful revolt against the Seleucid monarchy led by the Maccabee brothers, Judas, Jonathan, and Simon. The theatrical counterpoint to the Maccabean story is provided by the tale of Alicia and her seven sons, who die successively under torture rather than yield to the advances of Antiochus IV Epiphanes. The conclusion of the book features the decrees of the Roman senate inviting the Jewish king Hyrcanus to Rome and bestowing on him the title "Friend of the Romans". adherents of Judaism who took part in the persecution of their coreligionists are portrayed as apostates and demons and are severely punished, usually by heaven. This tendency may reflect the desire of the author to encourage his fellow Jews to remain faithful to their religion regardless of the cost and to uphold the sanctity of Torah and Temple worship as the unique and proper worship of the One God. The fate of the apostates serves as a foil to that of the martyrs, who are universally rewarded for their fidelity. The canonicity of 3 Maccabees was never given definitive recognition in either
Elsewhere is the fourth novel by English writer Gabrielle Zevin, published in 2012 by Little, Brown and Company. The story is about a girl named Liz, who is killed in a car accident on her eighteenth birthday and awakens as a spirit in a place called "Elsewhere." Elsewhere is a place where all humans go when they die, where they live an ideal, timeless existence and retain a memory of their life on Earth. However, Elsewhere is not a "heaven" as it is only one of many afterworlds. Unlike Earth, Elsewhere is not a place of natural occurrence, but rather a place created by the imaginations of humans. Every human arrives at Elsewhere upon death, but humans do not arrive all at once, as deaths do not occur simultaneously. Arrivals are based on chronological order, and since most people do not realize that they will arrive at Elsewhere when they die, arrivals are generally unexpected and unplanned. With no designated residences, the newly arrived must find housing elsewhere. Most residents live in an expansive city in Elsewhere, and the more recently deceased live farther from the center of the city, as there is no limit to space in Elsewhere. Liz eventually befriends her neighbor, a man named Owen Meany, who claims to be the "Heavenly Messenger" and arrives at Elsewhere before her. Owen is a difficult figure, as he is constantly trying to convince everyone of his importance and power in Elsewhere, which he claims is considerable. Liz does whatever
Elsewhere is the fourth novel by Gabrielle Zevin, published in 2002. It follows the story of a young girl, Liz, who is hit by a taxi and dies in the aftermath. Because she is irreversibly depressed and because she had just euthanized her dog, Tracy, Liz is not welcomed into heaven, so she is sent back to Earth, now referred to as "Elsewhere," in the body of a recent suicide victim. She is given only one day to find a reason to live before she returns to the afterlife. While Elsewhere lacks a traditional plot, it follows the life of Liz as she struggles to come to terms with her situation and to find a reason to live. In the process, she learns to relate to her hosts and comes to understand the family dynamics of the ones she is borrowing a body from. In her host's body, Liz begins to see things in a new light and develops a deeper understanding of the world and the people around her. She also comes to terms with her own past and the events that led up to her death. As Liz is drawn into the lives of her host family, she becomes particularly close to her host sister, Hannah, who is a paraplegic and a bit of a loner. Liz is able to understand Hannah and the challenges she faces in a way that their own mother is not able to. Liz's host mother, Anne, is struggling to come to terms
The title character, Maisie Copley, is a remarkable child. Believing herself forgotten during a divorce, she maneuvers between her feuding parents, Susanna and Beale, using her considerable insight into human nature to manipulate both of them against each other. Maisie is a very intelligent and observant child. She notices everything around her and draws her own conclusions. She is the pivot of the novel, being the focal point in the division between her parents. Her father, Beale, is a ruthless, selfish businessman who is much in love with his wife, Susanna. Susanna is kind, gentle, and refined, but is an unfaithful wife. As the novel opens, Beale has just brought Maisie to live with him in New York, where he is now residing with his new wife, Ida. Maisie is very unhappy there and longs for her mother. After Beale loses a lawsuit and is ordered to pay a large sum of money to Susanna, he disappears with Maisie, intending to start a new life in Havana. When the steamship they have taken arrives in Havana, Maisie is frightened by the sound of cannon fire and refuses to leave the ship. Beale is convinced to return to New York with Maisie, where he is subsequently arrested for debt. In the meantime, Maisie is looked after by Mrs. Struthers, whom she calls "Granny", and with whom she lives for a time. When Maisie learns that her father has been arrested, she is delighted, as she hopes that he will be sent
The action of the novel takes place over a very few months in 1887, leading up to the Whitsuntide festivities in London. Maeve Aird has been left a young widow with a comfortable fortune, and possesses a London house and a country cottage, as well as the companionship of her diminutive daughter, Maisie.wonderful Mrs. Aird elects to remain in England, rather than to return to America, and leaves Maisie in the care of her father's friend, Captain Henry Audley, reputedly the handsomest officer in the Guards, who is married to Maisie's former nurse, Clara. Miss Maisie is a strikingly beautiful child, with "deep-blue eyes and a flush of rosiness as delicate as the tint of a pink shell." She is remarkable for her acute observation and her thoughtful silence. Clara, on the other hand, is a big, motherly woman with a serene and sanguine temperament. She has been trained in what Mrs. Grundy deems the "principles of morality and decorum," but she is without intellectual depth. As the daughter of a rural veterinarian, she has acquired a generous appreciation of the pleasures of eating and drinking. Captain Audley is away with his regiment when the story opens. Mrs. Grundy pays a call on Mrs. Aird, and is shocked to discover that she left her daughter in the care of a married man. The visit is returned, and Mrs. Grundy's 17-year-old son, Sir Claude, encounters Maisie. He converses with her for some minutes, and is struck by her beauty and intelligence.
House party at the home of Sir John and Lady Sylvia Marple. One of the guests, Colonel Luscombe, receives a letter from his sister, Mrs. de Rushbert, saying she will be visiting the area and requesting she be allowed to stay with him. Mrs. de Rushbert arrives, much to the surprise of Sylvia, as she is the recently divorced wife of Neville de Rushbert, whom Sylvia knew as a former fiancé of her daughter, Caroline. Sylvia is not pleased with her presence, but she is allowed to stay. The next day, Sylvia asks her friend Jane Marple for her advice as to whether she should tell Mrs. de Rushbert that she knows her former husband. Jane says that she should not, as she does not know all the circumstances surrounding the couple. That night, Mrs. de Rushbert is found dead at the foot of the stairs, having fallen from the top. There is no evidence of foul play, but Jane is convinced that Mrs. de Rushbert was murdered. Jane's investigations uncover several suspects. Colonel Luscombe had been having an affair with Mrs. de Rushbert; Neville de Rushbert is now engaged to a young woman whose father stands to gain a large sum of money if Neville were to die; Mrs. de Rushbert's maid, Louise, was overheard by another maid, Ellen, saying that her mistress had deceived everybody and that "he knows"; and finally, Mrs. de Rushbert had been receiving blackmail notes, with initials "L.I." sewn into the dress she was
As children, Marian Leatherhead and her younger sister Laura were left in the care of their uncle, Toby leatherhead, and his wife, Lucy, after their parents were killed in an accident. Now in her early 20s, Marian feels compelled to go live on her own and get a job, but lacks the self-confidence to do so. She is shy and finds it difficult to socialize with people she does not know. She wonders why she is so different from her vivacious and popular sister, Laura, who has many boyfriends and is soon to marry Toby's younger brother, Gerald. Marian is puzzled by her uncle's romantic interest in her, as she does not find him attractive. When Toby's mother, Aunt Kate, visits, Marian is drawn to her, seeing her as a potential mother figure, while Kate seems to reciprocate these feelings. One night, Marian surprises Uncle Toby kissing her aunt Kate. Marian is horrified and does not understand what she has seen. Then, realizing that her aunt and uncle's behavior is due to her own presence, she resolves to keep this incident a secret. When Kate finds out that Marian saw them, she is shocked and dismayed that Marian did not tell her about it, but does not elaborate on why she is so upset. Shortly afterward, Kate suddenly dies, leaving Marian bewildered and confused. Some time later, Marian attends a formal ball hosted by her uncle and aunt, where she meets a handsome young man named Ralph Cornwaite. They begin
This Lullaby is a psychological horror novel written by Dan Chaon. It was released in 2002 by Ballantine Books. The novel is structured as a collection of interconnected short stories. Each story is written from the point of view of a different character, and each character appears in more than one story. The novel explores the theme of escaping one's past, and takes place in an anonymous small town referred to as "Bluff City". Eight of the characters are linked by their involvement in a mysterious car accident that has resulted in the death of a young boy. They include: Kate Christopher, a former Bluff City resident who, in the first story, returns to her hometown with her husband and children in order to help her father with his struggling business. Over the course of the novel, Kate begins to suspect her father is the serial killer who has been murdering young boys in Bluff City. In the final story, set decades after the events of the other stories, Kate, now an old woman, is murdered by her father. Russ Granger, a mechanic who, in the second story, is responsible for repairing the car involved in the accident that kills the young boy. Russ begins to have strange dreams and thoughts after accidentally glancing at a photo of the boy who died in the accident. In the final story, Russ attempts to come to the aid of Kate Christopher, the boy's mother, after he hears her screams. Frank Christopher, Kate's
Ellen Alliance is a bereaved mother, struggling with the recent suicide of her daughter Hannah.nklessly seduces Eddie, a handsome young man in his twenties working at a coffee shop in the cemetery where Hannah is buried, and where Ellen has been coming every day to mourn. Ellen and Eddie's tryst culminates in Ellen's revelation that the reason she chose him is that he reminds her of Hannah. devastated by the news, Eddie pushes Ellen away and leaves her. Ellen returns home and gets ready for work. Some time later, Eddie shows up at Ellen's job, and they resume their sexual relationship. Gradually, Ellen reveals more about Hannah: Hannah was a precocious child who skipped two grades and became estranged from her peers as she grew older. Ellen and Hannah's relationship was strained due to Ellen's career as a judge and her belief that Hannah used people. Eventually, Hannah dropped out of college, where she was studying philosophy, and began using drugs. Later, Hannah informed her mother that she had a boyfriend, but when pressed, would not reveal his name. Eventually, Ellen found out that the boyfriend was a drug dealer, and became worried that Hannah would get hurt. Eventually, Hannah moved without leaving a forwarding address, and cut off all contact with her mother. Later, Ellen received a phone call from the morgue stating that a body had been found matching Hannah's description, leading to Ellen's trip to identify the body. Ellen concludes her story by saying that she didn't
Iron Sunrise is a 1992 science fiction novel by American writer Robert L. Forward. It is the story of an interstellar expedition to a distant star system that encounters a mysterious alien ship. The alien ship turns out to be a prison ship containing many species of hostile, violent, and intelligent alien creatures. The aliens are released when the human expedition's ship opens an underwater hatch on the prison ship. The aliens quickly overcome the humans and take over their ship. The humans are able to hide some of their people in an underwater compartment on their ship. The captain of the human ship challenges the alien leader aboard her ship to a game of chess, using human and alien pieces, with the stake being the humans' lives. By winning the game, the human captain convinces the alien leader to help them escape and ultimately return to Earth.
Iron Sunrise is a 1992 science fiction novel by American writer Robert Charles Wilson. It is the fourth novel in Wilson's Repairman Jack series. In the 22nd century, entrepreneur Wing Lee has achieved fame and fortune by commoditizing the weather. His company,Gx, provides local weather control anywhere in the world from "skyscrapers equipped with cloud-making machinery, super-computers, and data-processing facilities". Wing Lee has become a superstar, appearing on magazine covers and television, when an alien entity called the Ally arrives in Earth's solar system and establishes communication with selected individuals on Earth. The Ally is a collective of uploaded minds that have chosen to leave their physical bodies behind and exist as electromagnetic patterns. Its arrival is the beginning of a new era for Earth's humanity. Using advanced "soft" alien technology, the Ally offers a select group of humans the means to transcend the limitations of their biological bodies and join the Ally in its realm as "downloaded beings". The reaction to the arrival of the Ally is mixed. Some see it as an opportunity for humanity to achieve a new level of existence; others view it as a threat. Factions and nations rise and fall as mankind confronts the prospect of a post-biological world. As the political and philosophical conflicts unfold, Repairman Jack, a "repairman" who fixes situations for clients for a price, finds himself hired by Gx CEO Wing Lee to steal a small object, the purpose of which is not revealed. Jack soon finds himself in the
Ladies' Night is a novel by Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark, published in 1995. In this novel, Jamie McDevitt is a young woman who loses her job as a restaurant manager in New York City due to criminal charges — despite her innocence — so she takes a job as the live-in manager of an isolated, elegant hunting lodge in upstate New York, a position offered by the absent owner, John P. Whitney, whom she has never met. Shortly after she arrives, Jamie finds a gun taped to the bottom of a desk drawer. She also learns that Whitney's wife, Lauren, was found dead in a nearby lake several months earlier, and that Whitney's daughter, Brooke, has been missing for eight months. Jamie's job is made difficult by the presence of FBI agent John Nelson, who believes that Jamie is hiding something, and by Brooke's brother, Thane, who quickly develops a romantic interest in Jamie. As Jamie learns more about the Whitneys, she comes to the conclusion that Lauren was not the victim of an accident, and that Brooke's disappearance may also have been murder. However, she finds it difficult to accept that anyone in the Whitney family could be capable of such crimes, particularly Thane. When Nelson reveals that Thane is believed to have had a relationship with his stepmother, Jamie is unwilling to believe it. Jamie's situation becomes more complicated when Thane moves into the hunting lodge. She also learns that Nelson's theory about Thane and
Ladies' Night is a psychological horror novel written by Victoria Helen Stone. It was published on July 11, 2023, by Del Rey Books. The book follows four female friends who go on a camping trip to Hibbard Beach, California, which becomes a nightmare when they encounter a group of malevolent ghosts who seek to punish them for leaving behind female companions on previous trips. Amy,CAS, Frankie, and Kiki are best friends who have known each other since college. CAS, who is affectionately known as Cas, suggested a ladies' night camping trip to Hibbard Beach, a coastal community about an hour's drive from San Francisco. The four women set up their tents and get comfortable for what they expect to be a restful evening. They discuss their personal lives—Frankie is recently divorced, Kiki is a workaholic who is too busy for a social life, and Amy, who is pregnant with her second child, feels overwhelmed by her job and her husband Jake, who is a sheriff's deputy. Cas is the coordinator of the Hibbard Beach Historical Society. Cas reveals to the others that when she first moved to Hibbard Beach, she rented a decrepit house where she and her friends were subjected to nightly visits from an entity known as "the Maiden." Cas says the Maiden was a tortured soul who was jealous of the happy times her friends had in her house. Eventually, Cas and her friends abandoned the house, and none of them ever spoke of the Maiden again.
Dying Inside is a 1994 novel by American writer Barry Lopez. It is about a boy named Timothy who has a psychiatric evaluation at a hospital after assaulting another boy who was bullying a friend of his. The novel is divided into three parts, with the first and last parts taking place in the present time of the evaluation, and the middle part telling the story of Timothy's relations with his religious parents, his brother, and others in his life.
Dying Inside is a 1994 novel by American writer Arthur Golden. The novel follows the life of Jakob Beer, a Polish Jew who survives the Warsaw Ghetto but is afterward forced by the Nazis to work at a concentration camp. He steals antibiotics and commits murder to help a Jewish surgeon at the camp complete an ambitious and unethical experiment to transform a barracks full of Jewish women into a series of "surrogate mothers" for the children of the camp commanders. After the war, Beer emigrates to America, where he becomes a successful director of pornographic films. Eventually he abandons the porn industry and begins to direct television commercials. He marries an African-American woman and has a family with her, though he continues to have feelings for the woman who served as his "surrogate mother" in the camp. With the assistance of the surgeon (who emigrates to America alongside him), Beer uses his wealth to help the "surrogate mothers" and their children escape from the camp before its liberation, even though this means turning his back on additional murders and participating in a robbery. As the novel unfolds, it becomes clear that Beer's experiences during the war twisted his personality and senses, and it may be that the events of the novel, including his career switch and the dissolution of his marriage, are attempts to stave off the psychic damage he suffered as a concentration camp inmate and collaborator. The novel is told in first-person perspective, through diaries, letters, newspaper
The novel follows the Fukuyamas, a typical Japanese family living in Tokyo, through the affairs of three generations: the patriarch, Ryūzō; his wife, Yoshiko; their daughter, Noriko; and Noriko's husband, Shinichi. The story is set in the 1990s but often goes back in time to give the reader a better understanding of the family and its problems, notably the suicide of Ryūzō's brother which is never spoken of directly but casts a long shadow over the family. Ryūzō and Yoshiko have never really come to terms with this death, and by extension, neither have Noriko or Shinichi who knew their uncle only through stories and photographs. These shadows are magnified by the fact that Ryūzō and Yoshiko never really talked about it, and seem to have compartmentalized the event, somehow making it a non-event. This pushes Ryūzō and Yoshiko to raise their daughter Noriko with a sense of guilt, exacerbating her already latent sense of responsibility and thus making her a "pushover". Shinichi, Noriko's husband, is a typical Japanese salaryman, giving his all to a thankless job with a company he does not identify with, and taking out his frustrations on his wife. While Noriko does her best to be a good wife to Shinichi, his mistreatment of her eventually leads her to have an affair with one of her co-workers. This creates a further divide between Shinichi and Noriko as he sees it as an insult to his manhood. The couple even goes so far as to see a
Still Walking is the novelization of a short story by authoritate Shimura, published in Japan in 1988. The novel tells the story of a Japanese family and the complexities of their relationships with one another. The novel opens with the Yoshikawas, a typical Japanese family, preparing for the annual family trip to the beach. The father, Ryūzō, is a stoic and unemotional man who is distant from his children and prefers to spend his time in the garden. The mother, Yoshiko, is a kind and gentle woman who is deeply loved by her children. The two eldest children, Nobuo and Tai, are typical teenagers who are more interested in their own lives than in their parents. The youngest child, Minoru, is a sensitive and thoughtful boy who often feels ignored by his parents and siblings. As the family prepares for the trip, Ryūzō becomes increasingly angry at the fact that Nobuo and Tai are more interested in their own lives than in the family. He begins to feel that his family is drifting apart and that he is losing control of them. Once they arrive at the beach, the family members slowly begin to open up to one another. Ryūzō, feeling the warmth of his wife's skin next to his, begins to realize how much he loves her. Yoshiko, feeling her husband's love for her, begins to understand how much she means to him. Nobuo and Tai, feeling the love of their parents, begin to realize how much they mean
Riding for My Life is a 2004 autobiography by Elizabeth Williams. It tells the story of her recovery from encephalitis, a disease that left her paralyzed from the neck down when she was 12 years old, and her subsequent efforts to resume her passion for horseback riding. Williams became paralyzed in 1989, at the age of 12, shortly after she had begun riding horses. As a result of her paralysis, she spent three months in the hospital, and then underwent an extensive rehabilitation process. Though doctors told her that she would never ride again, Williams was determined to get back on a horse. With support from her family and friends, she found a therapeutic riding center and began riding again. Williams went on to compete in the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta, Georgia, where she won a gold medal in team event and a silver medal in the individual competition. In 1998, she became the youngest person to be inducted into the United States Dressage Federation Hall of Fame.
Six days after the September 11 attacks in 2001, Caleb Carr arrives in Manhattan at his sister's request to investigate the disappearance of her husband, a prominent conductor and musicologist who had been studying a possible link between three centuries of Baroque composers and a shadowy network of sabotage, terrorism, and espionage. Howard Molloy has been murdered, and both his daughter and his assistant have been drugged and kidnapped. Following clues that take him from the world of Manhattan's high society to the Balkans and finally to Venice, Italy, Caleb, a veteran of the Persian Gulf War and a former Army ranger, finds himself pitted against a group of powerful international operators, and it becomes clear that he is the last line of defense for an endangered 8-year-old girl, her talented but disturbed 16-year-old brother, and the four remaining composers on their parents' list.
Against the advice of the villagers and his own senses, the adventurer approaches the tomb, which materializes out of a miasma of shadow. A massive door opens, revealing a stone staircase that descends into the darkness. Laughter can be heard, and the way is lit by flaring torches that swing of their own accord. At the bottom, the adventurer faces a chamber filled with skeletal remains, and a lone figure approaches. The figure, a wizard named Acererak, invites the adventurer to become a servant of the god Cyric, but the adventurer refuses. Acererak reveals that the adventurer is actually a skeleton, and that the living being who entered the tomb was turned away at the threshold by the power of a hidden glyph. He goes on to explain that the adventurer is now free to leave, but the way back is barred. The adventurer's only option is to advance deeper into the tomb. The adventurer encounters many deadly traps and puzzles as they explore the tomb, including a chamber filled with poisonous gas, a room with a floor covered in a thin layer of oil, and a corridor filled with mirrors that show the adventurer their own skeletal form. As the adventurer continues, they find a room filled with treasure, but as they grab the gold and jewels, their skeletal form begins to crumble and fall apart. The adventurer's quest for wealth has caused them to decay, and they are left with only a single silver coin. As the adventurer
Holmes descends into a sunken temple whose central chamber is labeled "Torre de la Peregrinación Sigilata" ('Tower of Sigilated Pilgrimage'), containing a trap-ridden floor, and a statue of a dragon. The main door is magically sealed, but Holmes finds a secret door to his left. Beyond that is a chamber containing four statues of knights, with a grate in the floor and an altar, on which rests a mask of shining silver. The mask is a holographic image projected from the grating, which lowers as Holmes approaches; beneath the grating is a pool of water in which numerous skeletons litter the bottom. The racket awakens the dragon, which attacks Holmes. The dragon's tail breaks the idol of a demon, which unleashes the demon upon Holmes. Holmes escapes through a secret door drawn on the floor with a magic marker, discovering a passage to a corridor filled with various traps. At the end of the corridor is a chamber with five doors; four of them are trapped, and the fifth opens onto a set of stairs that descend to a dungeon. The dungeon is filled with giant centipedes; Holmes closes the door to keep them out, then opens it slightly to confirm that they have not followed him. He proceeds to a chamber filled with statues of female figures. The statues are actually inhabited by skeletons, which attack him. Holmes climbs a ladder to get away from them and almost gets struck by a giant mace and chain. The mace is
In the near future, a terrorist organization called "The Shop" has launched several attacks on museums, stealing several pieces of art. In response, the museums have developed special robotic art guards to protect their exhibits. These art guards have been programmed with the personalities of the artists whose work they are protecting. One day, The Shop launches an attack on the Modern Art Museum. The art guard assigned to protect a particular painting, "The State of the Art", is a robot bearing the personality of the artist Hilaire Hiler. Hiler had once been a controversial artist, known for his extreme and controversial opinions on art and politics, as well as his use of propaganda in his art. As The Shop's agents break into the museum, the art guard/Hiler activates its emergency protocol, causing it to become fully immersed in Hiler's personality. It then proceeds to defend the painting using Hiler's unique and extreme methods.
In November 2022, Jack Bohlen—daughter Lily's father and painter Ruth's husband—travels from New York to San Francisco for a conference focused on Oceanic Awareness, a movement to raise awareness of environmental degradation along coastlines worldwide. Jack, an engineer, is employed by an engineering firm that addresses oceanic problems. On the flight out, Jack meets a mysterious man named Edward collectors who is having an affair with a married woman. Edward reveals that he is having the affair because he is haunted by the suicide of his lover, a mathematician named Marydon. Edward pressures Jack into offering advice to Marydon's ghost, but Jack does not believe in ghosts. In San Francisco, Jack learns that Ruth is hosting a gathering for Oceanic Awareness activists. Jack had not known of Ruth's involvement with the group. Jack meets some of Ruth's friends, including a former lover named Hal, a therapist; Lucy, a marine biologist; and Annie, a lawyer. Lily, who is nine years old, is kidnapped from a park. Jack is initially suspected of orchestrating the kidnapping because he had argued with Lily over her fears of boarding a ferry earlier that day. haunt Jack is unaware that Ruth had given Lily permission to ride her new bicycle across the Golden Gate Bridge. Police suspicion falls on Trent, a contractor employed by Jack's engineering firm who is facing criminal charges. Trent had come to the party and harassed Ruth. Meanwhile, Jack's affair with Ruth is revealed to the public. Jack had begun the affair
Many and Many a Year Ago is a 1940 novel written by James Hilton. The book was written in the United States, while Hilton was visiting as a professor at the University of Southern California. Many and Many a Year Ago is a story of two boys growing up in Victorian England, and their relationship with an elderly man, whom they call "The Captain". The book is divided into four parts, with the first three focusing on a different stage of the boys' lives, and the fourth concentrating on The Captain's. In the first part, the boys are introduced to The Captain, and the story is told from the perspective of one of the boys. The second part is told from the perspective of both boys, and the third part from the perspective of the other boy. The fourth and final part is again told from the perspective of the first boy, and in it, the reasons for The Captain's behavior are explained. The boys are both interested in sailing and the sea, and The Captain tells them stories about his life as a sailor. The boys are good students and excel at sports, but they eventually go to work for The Captain as apprentices on the sailing ships. The Captain teaches them about sailing and they learn a great deal from him. However, The Captain's past is full of mystery, and the boys are curious about it. They know only that The Captain was married and that his wife
Many and Many a Year Ago is a 1940 novel written by Inglis Fletcher. In the pre-Civil War era, the legend of the beautiful but demonic "Bell Witch" haunted the woods of Tennessee. As a young girl in 1828, Kate Batts lived with her parents on a farm in the rural town of Adams, Tennessee. neighbored by the Bell family. One day, Kate's father killed the Bell's beloved cat, triggering a curse from the Bell Witch. The creature began tormenting the Batts family, killing the livestock and terrorizing the children. Kate's parents sought the help of a local preacher, who concluded that the Bell Witch was in fact a demon. As the attacks intensified, Kate's father decided to move the family to a new home. However, the witch followed them, and continued to torment the family. Kate's mother eventually fell into a depression and died. The creature then focused its attention on Kate, who was forced to stay in her room to avoid the witch's wrath. As the years passed, the Bell Witch's legend grew, and it became a figure of fear and suspicion in the town. In 1830, a group of townspeople decided to investigate the witch's activities, and they discovered that it had been using a secret entrance in the Batts' home to enter and exit the house. The witch was eventually exorcised by the local preacher, but not before causing the death of Kate's brother and forcing Kate to lock herself in her room for the next
Such Is My Beloved is a 1937 novel by Austrian Nobel laureate Thomas Mann. It was the last of Mann's great novels to be published and the most private and intimate of all his works. The story is a subtle variation on the myth of Narcissus. The setting is the Italian resort of Taormina in the summer of 1913. The protagonist, Hans Castorp, is a young engineer from Hamburg, who is visiting Sicily for health reasons. He is taken ill with tuberculosis and must remain in Sicily for five years to undergo treatment. He meets a young Italian, Clavdia Chauchat, and becomes infatuated with her. He allows the illness to progress in the hope that it will lead to an early death so that he can join Clavdia in the afterlife. Clavdia, it turns out, is not the ultimate embodiment of love and beauty that Hans has imagined. He finally understands this as he is dying and when he is visited by Clavdia for the last time. He comes to realize that he has idolized a false image of her and that she is not responsible for the suffering he has endured. Hans dies, but unlike Narcissus, he dies hating the object of his former adoration. The novel is both a comedy and a tragedy. It is filled with witty dialogues and observations of characters and events. But it also depicts in a very real way the suffering of Hans Castorp, both physically and mentally. It is one of Mann's
Such Is My Beloved is a 1924 novel by German author Stefan Zweig. It follows the story of an everyman named Otto Kaus, who chances to meet a woman named Edith under extraordinary circumstances. They fall in love and marry, but Edith's unconsummated love for her first lover, Erich, overshadows her relationship with Otto. When Erich reappears, Edith must choose between her loyal husband and her tumultuous former lover. Such Is My Beloved is Zweig's best-selling work and is considered a masterpiece of 20th-century romantic literature. The story is told from Otto's point of view, but Edith is the novel's main character. Edith is described as Otto's antipathy, and the story explores their interconnected yet disparate personalities. The novel was first published in 1924 to critical acclaim. It sold millions of copies and helped make Zweig a household name in Germany. In 1934, the novelist and playwright Jean Giraudoux adapted it into a successful play, which was performed in Paris and New York. In 1947, it was adapted into an American film, This Love of Ours, starring Merle Oberon and Claude Rains.
The Moomins are anxious when Moominpappa disappears. He turns up two days later: proud that he has joined The Explorers' Club, of which all other members have disappeared. The club's patron, Professor Snuffkin, is convinced that an expedition to the haunted volcano will bring fame. Moominpappa wants to join, but the Moomins are concerned, as the volcano is believed to be filled with lava and dangerous monsters. The next day, Moominpappa climbs the volcano and finds that it is occupied by the Moomins' old acquaintance, the hobgoblin. Moominpappa attempts to befriend the hobgoblin, but fails and returns home. The other Moomins are proud of him. The hobgoblin tells the story of the glass mountain. He once lived on the mountain, until the mythical comet arrived and turned it into glass. It landed next to a castle, where a princess lived. The hobgoblin fell in love with her, but couldn't get to her because of the glass mountain. He didn't try to find another way – he knew there was no other way, so he just sat and cried. Eventually, the princess started to feel sorry for him and climbed the glass mountain herself. She didn't make it, but her scarf got caught on the hobgoblin's chimney. The hobgoblin climbed the scarf to meet her and they lived happily ever after. Moominpappa wants to visit the castle, but the hobgoblin warns him against it, because the castle is dangerous: it plays tricks on people. Nevertheless, Moominpappa decides to go. When he
The Moomins decide to tell stories of Moominpappa's adventures, and Snufkin acts them out with the aid of the others: As a young man, Moominpappa wanted to see the world and set out on several voyages. On the way, he met the professor who taught him the secret of the Perpetual Motion Machine, with which Moominpappa hoped to get rich. It never worked properly, however, and Moominpappa ended up in the navy of a small island kingdom where he rose to the rank of admiral. Later, he lived in a desert where he hunted tornadoes, and finally ended up as chaplain to a tribe of headhunters. Tired of all the excitement, he decided to return home and settle down. On the way, he encountered the Moomins for the first time. The Moomin family listens to the stories with interest, except for Little My, who begins to feel left out because she had not yet been born at the time most of the stories took place. After some initial difficulties, the family adopts the professor (whom they call "the lunatic") and welcomes him as one of their own.
As winter approaches, the remnants of Gaebril's army have invaded the lands once ruled by Elayne, and are using the True Source to create monsters to use against the Borderlanders. Rand, meanwhile, has been combating the Dark One, who repeatedly attempts to trick him into releasing the Dark One from his prison. Rand's efforts have caused the land to experience "the hour of twilight", when the Dark One's influence over the world grows and the True Source's power wanes. To combat this, Rand, Mat, Perrin and Moiraine enter the cave where the Dark One was originally sealed away. They succeed in restoring the True Source's power, and seal the Dark One away again. They then return to their camps. Perrin has been hunted by Slayer, who is revealed to be his friend Hopper. After failing to kill Perrin, Hopper/Slayer commits suicide by asking Perrin to kill him. Elayne, meanwhile, has been reconciled with Rand, and they marry as soon as he returns. Following the wedding, Rand leaves to confront the Dark One, while Elayne prepares to defend her lands from Gaebril's forces. Using the remaining seals she has acquired, Elayne raises a hero from legend, Birgitte, to combat the invaders. With Birgitte's help, Elayne's forces rout Gaebril's, but Birgitte is killed in the battle. Elayne grieves for her, but is comforted by the arrival of Aviendha, who has come to honor their treaty. The three remaining ta'veren, Rand, Mat and Perrin, prepare to attack the Dark One's prison, while he
Having saved the Mouse Nation's princess from the evil cat Sith, Mara, aided by the clans of the Acoma and Xacatecas, must now face thePrices of theach nation and other enemies in a battle for the imperial throne of Kelewan. With the death of his father, Emperor Kellen, and the extinction of the mighty line of warrior kings who had ruled for three thousand years, Luke, the new Emperor, is little more than a boy governed by his advisers. The political factions united in support of the Emperor are plotting to rid themselves of Kellen's outlander wife, Mara, and her young son, Justin. To save her family, Mara must do more than fight for her life. She must fight for the soul of the Empire itself in a game of Sharps, political intrigue, and bloody warfare. As factions within the Empire move to destroy the Acoma, Mara rallies her forces, preparing to match wits with the cunning, powerful Lord Daimyo of the Shinzawai, Kaleska. But when a dangerous tape that could change the course of the Empire is stolen, Mara is forced to do what she fears most: send her son away to safety. With threats inside and outside the palace, Mara turns to the one man she can trust -- her warrior lover, Turakamu -- to keep her son safe. Determined to protect his family, Turakamu takes Justin away, knowing that he is leading his loved ones into a trap. As Mara reads the translation of the stolen tape,
The story is about a criminal defense lawyer named Roza Lazar. Roza flees from her home in New York City to a small Canadian town, where she meets and falls in love with a local man named Tom. Eventually, Roza must face her past and go to New York to face charges of murdering the man she was once engaged to. While in prison, Roza writes a story on napkins about a woman who escapes from New York City to Canada after killing her fiance. These napkins reach Tom, and he publishes them as a book, which becomes a best-seller. With the proceeds from the book, Tom raises money for Roza's legal defense. At her trial, Roza's story wins over the jury, and she is acquitted of all charges. However, soon after the trial, Roza is murdered by an unknown assailant. At the same time, Tom finds one of the napkins in Roza's handwriting, with a confession that she indeed did murder her fiance.
The action of "The Confession" takes place in 1946 in the small town of Rivno, western Ukraine, shortly after the evacuation of the Soviet Union's camps for prisoners of war and forced laborers. The town is haunted by the disappearance of a young woman, Irena Podole, nine years earlier. Two men are convicted of her murder:ointers using a shotgun; one is sentenced to death and the other to ten years' hard labor. Nine years later, the man serving the ten-year sentence, Jacob Bach, steps off a train along with several other former prisoners and returns to Rivno. He is accompanied by a young woman named Lundgaard, who has rented him her apartment in Warsaw, and carries a suitcase belonging to Irena Podole that he found on a train. Jacob goes to see Anton, the local police chief, to ask about Irena. Anton tells Jacob that he was the one who arrested him for her murder nine years earlier, but that the man he arrested admitted to the crime immediately and had even demonstrated how it was carried out, pointing out the precise spot where the murder occurred in a pine forest where there is now a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary. However, Jacob insists that he is innocent and did not even know Irena. Jacob moves into a room in Mrs. Klein's house. That night, Jacob has a vision of Irena's ghost in his room. He draws a picture of her, which prompts Mrs. Klein to tell him about
The novel Slow Man tells the story of Tom, a veteran rower who wins a silver medal at the Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. On the way home, he reflects on his life and on his recently deceased father, from whom he inherited both his oarsmanship and his obsessive-compulsive disorder. Tom's flatmate, Klaus, asks him to sublet his apartment to a female dancer named Rebecca. Tom agrees and soon begins an intimate relationship with Rebecca, who is possessed by a violent and irrational jealousy. After moving in, Rebecca seduces Tom, and he becomes infatuated with her. When Tom admits that he participated in the Olympics, Rebecca's jealousy intensifies, and she accuses Tom of having an affair with one of his teammates. Tom denies this but eventually admits that he kissed one of his teammates after their boat won silver. Rebecca's jealousy inspires Tom to envision a scenario in which he murdered his teammate, Ian, simply to satisfy her obsession with jealousy. When Rebecca is invited to dance in Paris, she and Tom go on a road trip along the west coast of the United States. Halfway through their trip, Tom becomes disgusted with himself and with Rebecca's possessiveness. He feels guilty for having sexual relations with her and for having contemplated Ian's murder. Tom attempts to flee from Rebecca by leaving the car and hitchhiking, but Rebecca finds him and they resume their journey. At the end of the trip, Tom returns to his boat house in London and rows
The novel begins with a naked 82-year-old man, Oscar, swimming in the Adriatic Sea. On the beach, he meets a woman named Laura; they go to her apartment, and have sex. The next day, Oscar—a renowned Swiss philosopher—travels to Zurich, where he teaches a class, and meets with former student Joachim. That night, Oscar returns to his apartment and finds a policeman waiting for him. Another officer brings in Helmut Hube, a writer whom Oscar knew in Berlin in the 1930s, when Helmut was an ambitious young writer and Oscar was an rising academic. Helmut has been accused of murder, and the police wish Oscar to testify against him. Oscar agrees, and tells the story of how he first met Helmut in 1938, when he was an assistant to Professor Gottfries, a Nazi who invited Helmut to Berlin to discuss a book he had written. Gottfries became enraged when Helmut disagreed with his views, and accused him of being a Jew. Helmut denied it, but Oscar realized it was true when he spotted the Star of David on Helmut's birth certificate. Despite this, Oscar began a sexual relationship with Helmut. After the invasion of Czechoslovakia, Gottfries was ousted from the university and went to work for the Reich Security Main Office. Helmut began working for him as well, and stole two suitcases full of documents from him for a man named Schroder, who was involved in a plot to assassinate Hitler. The plot failed, and most of the people involved
Curtain Up is a novel written by Agatha Christie that was first published in 1975. The action takes place in December 1922; the location is the fictitious "Broadhinny" village, situated on the Dartmoor in Devon, England. The play The Murder of Hunter Quail, written by the famous playwright Gerald Durrell, is to be staged at the village's amateur dramatic society's annual festive performance. The protagonist, Dr. Arthur Calgary, arrives in the village and is cast in the play as Judge Wargrave, a judge who delivers the closing speech. Calgary learns that, three years earlier, the leading lady, the elegant and high-spirited Christine Clay, had been tried in London for the murder of her husband, Hunter Quail, and was acquitted for lack of evidence. The murdered man's mother, Mrs. Augusta Quail, and her companion, Mrs. Boyle, now live in Broadhinny. Despite concerns about the tactfulness of staging a play based on a real murder, the performance goes ahead. During the first performance, panic breaks out in the audience when one of the actors, the amateur detective Mr. Ralston, takes a real pistol from his pocket during the scene in which Judge Wargrave reveals the true identity of the murderer; Ralston is killed, and the murderer is revealed to be Christine Clay. It is then that Calgary learns that, three years earlier, he was the jury foreman on the case of Christine Clay; realizing that she was guilty, he voted against a guilty verdict but was overruled by the other jurors. He
Curtain Up is a novel written by Keith Waters that serves as a sequel to his first novel, Ticket to Ride. It is again set in the British Province of York, this time in the early part of the twentieth century, and follows the lives of two brothers, Edwin and Arthur, and their friend, Larry. The novel starts in 1904 as the brothers are about to embark on their careers. Edwin has just passed his examinations to become a lawyer and Arthur is trying to decide what career he should follow. Unbeknownst to Edwin, Arthur has decided to become an actor and the novel follows the brothers as their lives diverge. Edwin becomes a lawyer and gets married while Arthur bounces from job to job and becomes involved with a woman who is already married. The novel comes to its climax in the summer of 1913 when the brothers and Larry participate in a production of A Midsummer Night's Dream directed by Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree at his festival theater on Oxford Island.
In the summer of 1940, as England prepares to fight the Nazis, three very different women answer the call to mysterious woman named Vera who is recruiting for something called the Ladies' Auxiliary Air Squadron. Vera doesn't reveal much about the squadron's purpose, but she is persuasive, and soon the three women are bonded by a shared secret and sworn to silence. Rose is a bright, determined girl who has lost nearly everything in the Blitz. She is excited by the prospect of doing her bit to help the war effort, and especially by the possibility of flight training. Grace is an amusing, lovely young woman who has led a life of leisure. She thinks the war will be a lark, and she is eager to do her part, but she has no idea what she is getting into. Millie is from a working-class family and spirited. She is the most dedicated of the three to the war effort, and the most suspicious of Vera and her mysterious squadron. The three women undergo rigorous training and bonding sessions, during which they learn about aircraft and aircraft weapons, and engage in plenty of drills. They also learn how to handle a .38 Special revolver, and eventually take a oath of allegiance and sign the Official Secrets Act. Just as the women are about to graduate, Vera takes them aside one by one and reveals the secret purpose of the squadron. Using their high heels, they must kill Nazi pilots who have
In 1793, France is rocked by revolution and a guillotine's blade. As nuns are flushed from convents and monasteries across the country, three very different women face a choice: adapt to a new life or risk paying with their lives. When the nuns of Saint-Ambroise are expelled from their convent, they endure exile in a crowded, unfinished palace, where they become embroiled in a plot to seduce and assassinate Napoleon, thereby saving the monarchy. Sister Hortense, a aristocratic rebel who barely escaped the guillotine, decides to take control of her fate and provide for her younger sister. Sister Agnes, a naive but whip-smart novice, adapts to her new life with gusto, ignoring the danger all around her. And Sister Marie-Grace, a young Cajun novice, finds sanctuary in the arms of a handsome gendarme. As they adapt to their new lives, the sisters are pursued by a spy in their midst and endangered by the treacherous undercurrents of palace life. Despite the odds against them, the sisters of Saint-Ambroise will use all their resources to survive—and to accomplish what seems impossible: saving the king of France.
Parthiban Kanavu is a novel written by Tamil writer Sujana. The novel, set in Chidambaram, parallels the story of the Hindu god Krishna's disciple Parthiban with that of a modern man named Parthiban. The modern Parthiban, a dancer, is in love with his teacher Mangala's daughter, Rukmini. However, Mangala does not approve of the match, and he fears that Rukmini's father, a doctor, will not accept him as a son-in-law because he is a dancer. The story then shifts to Krishna, who is in love with his teacher's daughter, Rukmini. Krishna's brother-in-law Kamsa arranges for Krishna to marry Rukmini, but Krishna declines, as he is in love with another woman, Radha. Krishna eventually marries Radha. Parthiban, the modern man, decides to leave Chidambaram to pursue his dreams. His friend Vallavan convinces him to attend a dance performance in Chennai, where he sees Rukmini for the first time in many years. The two rekindle their love, and Rukmini's father agrees to their marriage. Krishna's story and Parthiban's story intersect at this point, and the novel ends with Krishna and Parthiban's weddings.
Parthiban Kanavu is a Tamil language novel written by Sri Lankan-born Indian author Devaki Nilambar. First published in 1961, it is the most widely read novel in Tamil and has been translated into all major Indian languages. The novel deals with the dynastic and emotional struggles between two brothers, Parthiban and Chandran, who pursue the same woman, Indra. Chandran, the younger brother, is a ambitious, pretentious and materialistic man. He is unfaithful to his wife, simmers with jealousy and regards his brother Parthiban as a rival. Parthiban, the elder brother, is a humble, liberal and compassionate man. He is faithful to his wife, who is imprisoned in a psychiatric hospital, and considers his brother the sole obstacle to his happiness. The story progresses through the viewpoints of Chandran, Indra and finally Parthiban. It describes the transformation of Chandran's attitude towards his brother and his newfound understanding of Parthiban's virtues. Indra, the object of the brothers' desires, is tormented by her feelings for Parthiban. She oscillates between hating him and desiring him, eventually leading to her demise. The story concludes with the tragic death of Indra and the spiritual transformation of Chandran. The novel explores the themes of sex, love, attachment, death and religious experience.
Mallory's Oracle is a novel written by Carol Anne Davis, published in October 2022. It follows the story of Mallory, a young woman who is offered the chance to have any question answered by the oracle of Apollo, and must decide whether or not to take it. The book explores the themes of fate, destiny, and the importance of making one's own choices in life. Mallory is a young woman living in New York City who is struggling to come to terms with her father's death and her mother's subsequent depression. One day, she is offered the chance to have any question answered by the oracle of Apollo, who has been revived for a single day. Mallory must decide whether or not to take advantage of this opportunity, and if so, what question she should ask. As she struggles with this decision, Mallory encounters a series of people who have come to the oracle for advice, including a pregnant woman, a businessman, and a couple seeking a cure for their ill child. Each of these people has a different perspective on the value of the oracle's advice, and Mallory begins to realize that the answer to her question may not be as straightforward as she thought. Ultimately, Mallory must decide for herself what question she wants to ask the oracle, and whether or not she is ready to face the answer. The book concludes with Mallory making her decision and taking action based on her own free will, rather than
Mallory's Oracle is a novel written by Agatha Christie and first published in 1965. The action takes place in the mostly abandoned mansion of a faded aristocratic family, the Aristides family. The family comes to the foreground thirteen years after the apparent suicide of the daughter of the family, Margo, when her fiancé, Colin Ranier, returns from Canada where he has been working. He comes to pursue the investigation of the suspicious circumstances of her death, strengthened by the posthumous letter she had sent him, in which she accuses her father of murder. Colin is received by Charles Aristides, but shortly thereafter Charles dies mysteriously, and Colin is compelled to call the police. Detective Chief Superintendent Mallory arrives from London to make inquiries into the death, and Colin, convinced that he will find the true solution, follows him at every step. Among the members of the family, and staff, Colin finds several suspects: the handsome but shallow Rupert, the drug-addicted Stephen, the frigid and calculating Anne, her secretary Laura West, recently released from prison for murdering her husband, a peculiar scientist named Jakob Ziller and former maid Hilda Broadhead, whose suspicious behavior culminates in the theft of a priceless turquoise necklace. At the end of the investigation, the solution to the mystery is unexpectedly linked to the story of a Greek sculpture, known as The Bull Leaper, which has been recently stolen from the terrace of the mansion.
Ender's Game is a 1985 military science fiction novel by American author Orson Scott Card. Set in Earth's future, the novel presents an imperiled humankind after two alien species nearly destroy the human race. The story follows the adventures of Andrew "Ender" Wiggin, a child soldier who survives training to fight a hostile alien race and become a great military leader. The novel explores the themes of empathy, empathy in general, and the value of human life. Card wrote the novel between 1977 and 1984, and it was published in 1985. Ender's Game is the first book of the Ender Saga, followed by Speaker for the Dead, Xenocide, Children of the Mind, and Ender in Exile. The series has sold more than 25 million copies and won several awards, including the Hugo Award for Best Novel and the Nebula Award for Best Novel. The book has been translated into more than 45 languages. Critical reception for Ender's Game was positive, with reviewers praising Card's writing and the book's exploration of complex themes. The book's military science fiction elements and strategy-based gameplay also received acclaim. A review in The New York Times called it "a powerful fantasy story". The book appeared on the Times list of best-selling fiction for four years and was a finalist for the American Book Award. It was adapted into a film of the same name in 2013. Is there anything specific I may assist you with regarding the summary of *Ender's Game*?
The novel is set in the future, probably between the years 2050 and 2070, in a world where humans have populated the Solar System and where aliens (called "Buggers" or "Formics") have attacked Earth. The aliens inhabit a different set of planets in the same star system as Earth. They are described as terrifying and highly intelligent. The aliens are capable of instantaneous teleportation, but cannot breathe in Earth's atmosphere. They also have a strong hive mind, with the queen Bugger controlling the entire race. The humans have survived two Bugger invasions, first a tentative "First Wave" and then a full-scale "Second Wave" before developing a hyperdrive that enables quick travel through the galaxy. The hyperdrive leads the way to human colonization of other planets in the solar system, particularly Mercury, Mars, and eventually most of the outer planets, including Neptune, Uranus, and Saturn. With the wide-scale colonization of the solar system, humanity unified under a world government, creating the Earth Federation Army and leaving behind localized and regional governments. With the threat of the Buggers seemingly gone, the EF Army evolved into a primarily diplomatic and cultural institution, but one which is kept alert for any potential Bugger threat. The novel begins several decades after the end of the Second Wave, with the main character, Andrew "Ender" Wiggin, being monitored by the EF Army. Ender is a young but highly intelligent and tactical genius, having been trained from a very young age by his parents and teachers, most notably
As the girls turn ten, Betsy and Tacy decide they need a change of scenery. They decide to go downtown by themselves to buy their own skates and have an adventure. While they are waiting for Mr. Palmer to finish some errands, Tacy inadvertently wanders off and gets lost. Meanwhile, Betsy worries about Tacy and wonders if she should look for her, or wait for her at Mr. Palmer's store as they had planned. She decides to wait, and Tacy returns shortly, having accidentally boarded a streetcar going to the end of town. Together, Betsy and Tacy venture downtown and marvel at all the big department stores. They enjoy a lunch of cream puffs at a pretty tea room, and when it starts to get dark, they hurry to Mr. Palmer's store. Mr. Palmer is relieved to see them, but scolds them for worrying everyone. Nevertheless, he is proud of their achievement and lets them buy the skates with money he had saved for their birthdays.
As the girls turn sixteen, they long for the grown-up world and decide to go downtown to the arcades and shops, and to the penny movie theater. It is the beginning of a beautiful friendship with two handsome young men, John Gerelds and Joe Watson, who take the girls on rides in a woody station wagon. At the same time,Vincent Hanson, a classmate, has always secretly admired Betsy, but she has never noticed him because of his shyness and studiousness. He competes for her attention with the popular and flashy John. Betsy herself must decide whether she will follow the traditions of her family and her set and become a society bride, or whether she will break free of that life and try to establish her own identity. When Betsy receives a marriage proposal from John, she is uncertain of her feelings for him, and her uncertainty increases when Joe begins to show his interest in her. In turn, Joe is interested in Betsy, but she is seemingly oblivious to his affections, leading him to devise plans to make her jealous by appearing to be friendly with another girl. When Betsy discovers Joe's strategy, she is amused and a little flattered, but nonetheless rebuffs him. She gradually begins to realize that she has feelings for Joe, but fears that she may be too late. She again receives a marriage proposal from John, and this time must decide whether to accept or decline.
Many years ago, in a certain kingdom, there lived a brave young man named Gvidon. He was respected by everyone in the kingdom except for the king who felt jealous of the young man. One day, Gvidon decides to go hunting. He rides his horse very deep into the forest, and suddenly he sees a large flock of ducks flying towards him. He aims his bow and shoots one duck. The duck falls to the ground. Instead of meat or feathers, however, Gvidon finds gold coins upon opening up the dead duck. He fills his bag with these gold coins and returns home. At home, Gvidon's wife is worried because he has been gone for so long. When he returns home, she is delighted to see him, but she is also very curious as to what he has caught during his hunt. Gvidon opens his bag and pours the gold coins out onto the floor. His wife is amazed. She begins to guess that the coins are connected to some sort of magic because there is no way her husband could have acquired so much gold in only one day of hunting. Gvidon's wife then decides to make dinner with the coins in order to test their magical properties. She takes some of the gold coins to the market in order to buy ingredients for dinner. To her surprise, the gold coins are still gold when they reach the market and are still usable as currency. The king hears about
The Tale of Tsar Saltan (Russian: Сказка о царе Салтане, Ščëzka ob čarove Šaltane) is a Russian folktale adapted into an opera of the same name by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov in 1899. There are at least three known variants of the tale, as well as a few fragments. The earliest known variant was published in 1789 in the first Russian folktale collection, compiled by Ivan Khudyakov, but the identity of the author of this variant is unknown. In this tale, the princess calls the tsar "Batu". The plot of Khudyakov's variant is as follows: There was a king named Tsar Saltan. He had a lonely existence because his only son, Prince Gvidon, was the product of a love affair between Tsar Saltan and a mysterious maiden who disappeared after his birth. The prince was raised in solitude by his father, who hoped that the boy would be able to take the throne when he died, but feared that the boy would be unable to do so because of his isolation. Tsar Saltan eventually decides to summon truthful and wise men from throughout his kingdom in order to teach his son the ways of the world. Fifty princes, wisemen, and minstrels visit the Tsar in his castle each day, and the prince asks them questions about life. The first forty-nine advise the prince, but the fiftieth, a old man named Psalman, teaches the prince that truth is hidden in lies and that only a wise man can distinguish between the two. For
The novel tells the story of a young man, Alex, who is a successful young lawyer in Manhattan. One night, he goes to a club and meets a beautiful woman, Dani, who works at a hedge fund. They have a great time together and end up spending the night together at Dani's apartment. The next day, Dani is absent from work, and Alex realizes that he doesn't even know her last name. He tries to find her, with no success, and eventually gives up. A year later, Alex runs into Dani on a subway platform. Dani explains that she lived in Paris for the past year, and successfully avoided any interaction with Alex due to social media. The two rekindle their relationship. Around the same time, Alex inherits a large sum of money and buys a large apartment. Dani becomes more and more successful at her job, and ends up becoming the chief operating officer of her hedge fund. As her success grows, she becomes more and more distant from Alex, who is laid off from his law firm. Eventually, Dani breaks up with Alex, saying that she needs someone who is more on her level, and that she wants to get married and have children within the next few years. Grieving from the breakup, Alex realizes that Dani's new boyfriend is another co-worker from her hedge fund. The novel ends with Alex moving to London to restart his life, with the implication that he is going to try to
Feeling guilty over his affair with Carla, developer Donald Baldwin decides to buy an apartment for his mistress to circumvent the moral clause in his contract with Empire. He offers to hire her as his assistant for the Prince Street project, but Carla turns down both offers. She tells him that she does not want to see him anymore, but he does not obey this request. Meanwhile, two internal investigators,onna and don hire former NYPD detective Charlie Cassidy to investigate Empire's books, where he finds several irregularities, including massive cash withdrawals and unauthorized payments by Helen. Charlie briefly meets with Elizabeth in the elevator, and she asks him to save Empire for her father. He agrees, and Elizabeth calls her father to tell him that she loves him. Empire recovers some of its losses by completing construction on one of its buildings ahead of schedule, thereby attracting a number of new tenants who had been interested in the building. The company's recovery pleases Henry, but he suffers a heart attack in his office. At the hospital, Elizabeth tells him that she wants him to resign as CEO so that she can take his place. He is initially reluctant, but she tells him that she does not want to see him anymore (similar to what Carla told Donald). Henry agrees and names Elizabeth as his successor. Elizabeth fires Trixie and Carla, and revives Empire's stalled developments, including the Prince Street project. She forges a partnership with the Japanese company Nishi, thereby
The novel follows the story of Jack Murphy, a veteran police officer who is struggling to come to terms with his wife's recent death and the ensuing custody battle over his stepdaughter, which is complicated by his increasingly contentious relationship with his father, who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. Murphy takes a job as a homicide detective in Los Angeles and becomes engrossed in the investigation of a string of serial killings, apparently connected to a local drug ring, that are eerily similar to the one he was unable to solve in his earlier years as a cop in Chicago. In addition to the investigation, Murphy must also contend with his new partner, a no-nonsense, tough-as-nails detective named Ellen Reyes, and his ongoing conflicts with his father, stepdaughter, and past. As Murphy and Reyes investigate the killings, they discover that the murders are not just connected to the local drug ring, but are also connected to a much larger conspiracy that involves some of the city's most powerful and influential figures. Despite the odds against him, Murphy is determined to solve the case and bring the killers to justice, regardless of the personal and professional consequences. As the investigation progresses, Murphy finds himself drawn to Reyes, and the two begin a passionate and intense relationship. However, as the case grows more complex and dangerous, Murphy finds himself in a race against time to solve the case before he loses everything he holds dear.
In Los Angeles, Glenda Davis is murdered after being brutally beaten and dumped on a pile of palm fronds by one of the several men she met at a nightclub. Homicide detective Weiss is unable to find any of the men, since they have fled, but he does find a distinctive ring on the victim's finger. He takes it to a local jewelry store, where the owner, Freddie Bartholomew, identifies it as having been made by his father, who lives in Bangkok. Weiss persuades Freddie to fly to Bangkok and bring his father, a master engraver, back to Los Angeles. Desmond Bartholomew identifies the ring's owner as Eddie Seda, a notorious drug lord. Weiss and Bartholomew fly to Bangkok, where they find Seda and bring him back to the United States. At Los Angeles International Airport, Seda floods the bathroom with gas and sets it on fire, causing the fire department to evacuate the passengers, where they find Glenda Davis' body in a locker. Using information gleaned from Seda, Weiss discovers that Davis was not his only victim, and that other women have disappeared over the years. They locate the burial sites of four previous victims and find the missing ring on one of the bodies. When Seda's lawyer, Al Burnstein, warns him that he could potentially be charged with twenty years worth of murders, Seda requests to speak to Weiss, whom he bluntly asks, "Do you know how to sing?". When Weiss answers in the negative, Seda sings a
While on a hiking trip in Switzerland with her only child, Kate Holloway receives a phone call from an officer at London's Heathrow Airport. He tells her that her husband, John, has been seriously injured in a motorcycle accident and that she should return home immediately. Upon her return, she is met by her brother, who is concerned that John's injuries may not have been an accident, and he urges Kate to investigate the mysterious circumstances of her husband's condition. Kate soon discovers that her husband's accident may be connected to his recent involvement in a controversial scientific experiment titled "Triage X," and his subsequent disappearance shortly before the accident. As she delves deeper into the mystery, Kate uncovers a shocking revelation about her husband's involvement in the project and the true purpose of "Triage X."
While driving intoxicated through rural Pennsylvania, Sam Trive is involved in a car accident with a woman named Claire and her daughter Abigail. Sam, an ER doctor, examines Abigail and finds she is dead. He is uncertain whether to tell Claire, and decides to let her believe her daughter is still alive. As a result of this decision, Sam is charged with murder. Assisting him in his defense is his friend and colleague, Joe. As the story progresses, the reader is given glimpses into Sam's past, and how he came to be in rural Pennsylvania. He is a well-respected doctor in Philadelphia, engaged to his assistant Megan, and appears to have the perfect life. He has had a successful career, and is highly regarded by his colleagues and friends. However, he has unresolved issues with his father, an alcoholic who was physically abusive to Sam's mother. As Sam tries to piece together the events leading up to the car crash, he tries to justify his actions to himself, and to Joe, by comparing himself to his father. He describes how as a boy, he refused to help his mother when his father struck her, just as he did not help Abigail. In both cases, he makes the decision not to get involved, and thereby takes the easiest course of action- in the case of his father, by ignoring the situation, and in the case of Abigail, by letting Claire believe her daughter is still alive.
Tarzan at the Earth's Core is a novel by American writer Edgar Rice Burroughs, published in 1914, collecting a serial that appeared in The All-Story Magazine from December 1913 through March 1914. Tarzan at the Earth's Core returns to the jungle setting familiar from the first Tarzan books, but with the added twist of a subterranean setting. Tarzan becomes concerned when he intercepts interplanetary signals broadcast from the interior of the Earth and discovers that an alien race has taken refuge in the hollow planet. With the aid of an ingenious scientist, Professor Maxon, Tarzan penetrates the Earth's crust and discovers a prehistoric world, filled with monsters, barbarians, and beautiful women. He meets the native cavemen and battles the hideous gorilla-like Mahars, before he is captured and taken before the High Priest of the Mahars, who rules the subterranean world. The High Priest offers Tarzan a bargain: in return for aiding the Mahars to conquer the surface world, Tarzan is to be given the beautiful Azra, whom the Mahars have held captive. Tarzan declines, and a bitter battle ensues, culminating in Tarzan's victory. He then returns to the surface with Azra, Professor Maxon, and a number of other women who have been freed from Mahars.
The novel tells the story of Ralph Marshall, a young American in search of a career. During the course of his travels he becomes entangled in a web of love, intrigue, and murder amidst the glittering royalty of Austria. He falls in love with a young Venetian named Elena de Renzis, who is traveling with her aunt, Princess Irene. Ralph is hired by Prince Karl, who is attracted to Elena, to drive him through the Alps. During this trip, Ralph and Elena confess their love for each other. When they return, Ralph is arrested and charged with murder. He is certain that Prince Karl had something to do with it, but he cannot figure out why. It is eventually revealed that Karl wanted Elena for himself and tried to kill Ralph. Ralph is eventually cleared of all charges and is able to marry Elena.
The novel tells the story of Prince Sévère Rowan, the heir to a petty European monarchy, who has been raised in nefarious secrecy by a governess in a cottage, surrounded by reel-to-reel film, decoder rings, and other toys of espionage. He learns that he is the heir to the throne of Berovinia, and must assume his royal responsibilities, including finding a bride. He becomes engaged to Annelia, but then meets and falls in love with Solita, who resists his advances as she has dedicated her life to the abolition of monarchy. Meanwhile, Sévère's cousin, the Duke of Maragascar, plots with a Sturmhiem agent named Fibsy to overthrow Sévère and seize the throne for himself. Sévère's governess, Miss Gubby, is really an undercover agent for a foreign power, as well as being a devotee of a fictional cult, the Cosmic Cult of free love. Sévère's engagements are announced in the newspapers but he escapes from his guardians and goes incognito to Maragascar's bachelor pad, where he finds a locket he gave to Solita, proving that she had been there. Sévère decides he must marry Annelia to prevent civil war, and he returns to the palace, where he finds Solita, who asks him to release her from their engagement. He does so, and then discovers that Annelia has married his cousin. Fibsy attempts to kill Sévère with a bomb, but Sévère escapes, and then struggles with Maragascar, who falls to his death. With the help of Miss Gubby, Sévère escapes aboard an
In the small English village of SWATFORD-UNDER-WYCHwood, the life of every man, woman, and child is altered irrevocably by an act of perfidy so bizarre that it could have come straight out of a work of fiction—in this case, Evil Under the Sun, a novel by Agatha Christie. Old Miss Marple, an avid reader of detective stories, is quick to see the parallel between the murder of the Rev. Stephen Lane at the local vicarage and the murder of the houseguest in the novel; indeed, she guarantees her success in solving the case by betting her friend, Colonel Melchett, on it—but the solution proves to be far more complicated than she imagined. In the course of her investigation, Miss Marple discovers that the new bride of the vicar, Griselda, was a former model known for her unprincipled sexual behavior, that the bride's "best woman" had traveled extensively in the East and speaks numerous languages, that the groom's faithful retainer had a criminal record, and that another resident of the village had been seen burning a negative of the wedding photographs. Finally, when the investigating officer is found dead at the bottom of a cliff, it begins to look as if the murderer might have decided to follow the plot of a different detective story—The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.
In 1990, Gavin Dent, an eccentric Englishman, publishes a novel entitled "The Act of Roger Murgatroyd," which becomes a best seller. Dent receives a phone call informing him that he has inherited a fortune from a distant relative, Allowing him to quit his job at the Dairy Ministry. Shortly thereafter, he returns home to find his wife Gina waiting for him with a gun, ready to kill him in order to collect the inheritance she believes he received. Dent talks her out of it and opens a can of beer, and they both sit down to plan their future. Shortly after this, Dent's publisher asks him to appear at a book signing in Soho, so the Dents rent a flat in London. On the train to London, Dent meets an old woman who offers him a magic mushroom she claims was given to her by a Gypsy. Dent declines but doesn't throw the mushroom away; when his wife sees it she demands they take it. Once they do, they experience a bad trip and become frightened by what they see. This section of the book is written from the perspective of Dent's semi-corporeal spirit, which has been expelled from his body by the mushroom and is able to travel through time and space. Dent's spirit returns to his body just in time for the book signing, where he encounters an old friend, Percy Bryant, who is now a successful writer. Dent's publisher arranges for him to appear on a television
Arthurian legend and Wagnerian opera combine in Mary Stewart's classic tale of magic, murder, and revenge. In the summer of 1143, three young people arrive at Plas Treow, a lonely castle on the north coast of Cornwall. One of them, the fair-haired Gawain, is a noble knight and nephew of King Arthur. The second, the brunette Agravaine, is his cousin and a knight himself. The third is Gwenhwyfar, a young woman of great beauty and dignity, whose past is shrouded in mystery. And she is the reason Gawain and Agravaine have come to Plas Treow. For Gawain has been charged with the duty of protecting Gwenhwyfar, who is destined to become the wife of King Arthur--and who has been targeted by Agravaine's father, the evil sorcerer Merlin, as revenge for a bitter betrayal he suffered at the hands of the king. Merlin has managed to deceive Agravaine into thinking that Gawain is his enemy, and the young knight is determined to destroy his rival--whatever the cost. While Gawain is distracted by his mission to protect Gwenhwyfar, Agravaine conspires to kill him. But neither Merlin nor Agravaine counted on the loyalty of a young servant boy named Tubby, who hides Gawain in an ancient chapel that has been hidden for centuries and is known to few. While Gawain remains safe in the secret room, a thrilling contest of wills and magic begins between Merlin and the goddess of the lake, who has her own plans for the future of Gwenhwyfar and
Arthur Reboul jr., son of a wealthy businessman and jealous of his father's relationship with his chauffeur, breaks into his father's safe and steals a packet of letters written by his mother, who has recently died, to his father. He also steals a pistol which he aims at his father, forcing him to empty his own safe. In it he finds a bag containing 100,000 francs in banknotes, a necklace and a photograph of a woman dressed as a man. Meanwhile, Pierre Lauzet, a young man who has been courting Arthur's sister, Germaine, needs 100,000 francs to pay off a gambling debt. He tries to get the money from Arthur, who refuses, and then forces a pack of playing cards on him and tempts him into a game of baccarat. Pierre seems to be winning, but then disappears with the money. Arthur's father identifies the photograph as that of his own brother, Louis, who has been missing for nine years. Arthur senior decides to sell off his business and go looking for his brother. Arthur junior attempts to flee to Italy with Germaine but is arrested for stealing his father's car. The magistrate lets him go and asks him to accompany his father on his search for Louis. They go to Antibes where they find Louis's mistress, Frederique, who is reluctant to reveal where he might be. However, she takes Arthur senior to see her husband, Albert, who is blind. He recognises Arthur senior's voice and is told the reason
In February 2005, power outages strike across the United States, caused by solar flares triggering intense thunderstorms. These "sun storms" were discovered by a team of scientists working for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, who then must struggle to convince the federal government that the storms are real and will strike again, with far more devastating results, in the next ten days. As the science behind the source of the outages becomes clear, the scientists realize that the solar flares are controlled by an alien race using the sun as a weapon to disable the power grids, and that the subsequent storms are being manipulated to mask the cause of the blackouts. With the aid of a university researcher, the scientists discover that the aliens are using the Earth's own weather satellites against it. As the nations of Earth begin to panic, the scientists, with the help of the university researcher and a powerful electromagnetic weapon, must find a way to overcome the aliens' advantage before the world's power and communication networks are completely disabled.
In 2020, multinational corporations have revolutionized space travel, and their excessively ambitious endeavors have wreaked havoc on the lunar surface. The moon has been constantly harassed by illegally placed mining equipment, and the indigenous creatures are enraged. To reclaim their homeland, the moon creatures have commenced a courtship ritual to spawn a single massive creature code-named "Humbaba". Humababa's mission is to destroy the lunar colony and all of the equipment on the moon's surface. Against this backdrop, Dong Yue, an worker from Singapore who is stuck on the moon due to an accident, is inadvertently embroiled in a conflict between the indigenous creatures and the humans. After a series of events, Dong Yue joins the creatures in their fight. Meanwhile, onboard a space station, astronaut Feng Yixi awaits news of the impending disaster on the moon. Since the multinational corporations have cut off all communications to the lunar base in a desperate bid to keep their illegal activities a secret, it has fallen to Yixi to plan for the survival of the astronauts on the moon.
The novel is set in Cyprus during the 1960s and follows the life of a poet, Andreas Kaldis, whose wife, Helga, has recently died in an automobile accident. Andreas begins a series of affairs with three women: his childhood friend, Margarita, with whom he already had an affair before Helga's death; his daughter, Kleo's, best friend, Xenia; and an Englishwoman, Mrs. Dawson, whose husband is a British officer stationed in Cyprus. The novel explores each of the women's relationships with Andreas, as well as with one another. Throughout the novel, Andreas reflects on his late wife, remembering both her virtues and her faults. The title comes from a poem by Delmore Schwartz, which is quoted by one of the characters.
The novel is set in 1949 in a unnamed country on the shore of the Mediterranean, at a tourist resort, in a somewhat luxurious hotel named the Grand. All the guests are elderly and almost all are foreigners, mainly English but also including an American, a Canadian, a Belgian, and a Norwegian. Their youths were spent in places like Alexandria, Colombo, Calcutta and Singapore, "where every day dawned with the promise of gold". All are retired, most are widowers, and most are wealthy. They have come to the Grand because they have heard that the food there is good, and also because it is "quiet". lent alone in the hotel is an angry, lonely, mostly drunk, lately retired policeman named Charles Hayward, who is living in the hotel because he cannot yet afford to live elsewhere, although he has money from a pension and winnings at the horse races. One day, a former colleague of Hayward's arrives at the hotel, telling Hayward that a London friend of his named Richard Pratt has also arrived, and has taken a room. Pratt, who is forty-five, once supplied Hayward with intelligence from the Soviet Union, and Pratt's boss described him as "one of the best men we had ever had anything to do with". Pratt, who is described as "amusing, generous and sincerer than most men", became wealthy through his business, and also because his wife amassed a large fortune through her family's business, though Pratt spent much of her money on alcoholic
In 1865, sixteen-year-old Will enlists in the Union Army, lie about his age because he wants to serve in the American Civil War. He is deployed to the front lines and proves himself as a brave soldier. When the war ends, he returns home to the Western frontier where he becomes an outlaw, robbing trains and stagecoaches. However, the income he gets from his robberies is not enough to support his wife and son, so he decides to try and find a more legitimate source of income. He goes to Texas where he gets a job as a cowhand but is severely injured when the barn he is sleeping in catches fire. While he is recovering, his wife and child are killed in a raid by a Native American tribe. Will seeks revenge, but his boss, a former soldier named July Johnson, convinces him to wait. A few days later, July and Will, along with a few other cowhands and neighbors, organize a raid on the Native American settlement in retaliation for the deaths of Will's family and others in the community. However, when they get there, they find that the Native Americans have been already been attacked by other ranchers and only women, children, and the elderly remain. July and the other men decide not to take any more revenge as it would be immoral to attack the vulnerable survivors. Will, however, is still bent on revenge and leaves the group to continue on his own. He finds the
During the American Civil War, soldier George Loomis returns to his home in southern Indiana, where he meets Serena, an educated young woman who doubts the value of marriage. George pressures Serena to marry him despite her reservations, and although the marriage starts out badly, Serena eventually accepts her role as wife and mother. After the war, George opens a store in Indianapolis with his friend John Hawtree, and the couple has three children. Several years later, Serena's father Daniel Sims visits the family and mentions that Serena's younger sister Tolliver has died, leaving her share of the family estate to Serena. George persuades Serena to invest her inheritance in his store, and the business prospers, but Serena continues to feel dissatisfied with her role in life. George's sister Althie returns to Indiana after a failed marriage, and she quickly becomes involved with John. When George learns of their affair, he is initially comfortable with it since he views John as little more than a brother. However, when he realizes that Althie and John are in love, he becomes violently angry and forces Althie to return to her husband. John attempts to apologize to George for his affair with Althie, but George refuses to forgive him. Later that night, George goes to a local bar and gets into a fight, during which he is shot in the leg. A neighbor, Wiley Pichon, takes George home and tends to his wound. Serena becomes increasingly frustrated with her life and feels compelled
Love & Respect is a 2013 novel by American writer and journalist Irvin Yalom. It is a standalone work, though it includes references to his other novels. The novel explores the life of Aaron Green, a therapist who is struggling to find a new mate after the death of his wife. Green finds himself in ethical dilemmas as he falls in love with Anna, one of his clients. His professional ethics and the law require that he end the therapy and refrain from any contact with Anna. She, however, wants to continue therapy and develop a romantic relationship with Aaron. Love & Respect explores themes of love, loss, personal freedom, and professional responsibility.
"Love & Respect" is a book written by Dr. Emerson Eggerichs that discusses the importance of mutual respect in relationships. The main idea of the book is that women crave respect, while men crave love. Dr. Eggerichs points out that both men and women deserve both love and respect from their partners, but he emphasizes that failing to meet each other's primary need can lead to tension and conflict in a relationship. The book is based on Dr. Eggerichs' own experiences with marriage and relationships, as well as research and interviews with thousands of men and women. He explains how each person's core needs affect their behavior and decision-making, and how these needs can be met through mutual understanding and compromise. Throughout the book, Dr. Eggerichs provides practical advice for how couples can improve their communication and meet each other's needs for love and respect. He also discusses the importance of humility, vulnerability, and grace in relationships. "Love & Respect" has received positive reviews from readers and critics alike, with many praising its practical advice and insight into the dynamics of relationships. It has also been recommended by numerous relationship experts and therapists.
The story is about a young boy named Mickey who lives in a black-and-white world and is unhappy about being small and unable to do the things he wants to do. He falls out of his bed and lands in the night kitchen where he meets a group of talking animals. The animals are surprised to see him and ask him what he is doing there. Mickey tells them he fell from the real world, which they refer to as "up above". He also tells them that he wishes to return home, but the animals tell him that he cannot return home yet, because he does not know how to cook. The animals explain to him that he must make the sun come up in order to return home. Mickey is determined to make the sun come up and he begins baking cakes with the animals to make the sun rise. While they are baking, Chef Bear arrives and tries to get Mickey to bake cakes for him instead. Mickey is hesitant at first, but Chef Bear convinces him by offering him a chance to play the drums while he sings. The animals become upset at this, because Chef Bear will not let them bake their cakes. They decide that in order to get back at Chef Bear, they will dump a bucket of water on him when he is least expecting it. Mickey is upset by this, because he thinks it is wrong to do something mean just to
The plot revolves around a young boy, Mickey, who is submerged in a dark, colorless world, described as a place "where night is always night and morning is always a long way off." His mother is unable to comfort him when he cries and is frustrated by his inability to sleep. When Mickey suddenly finds himself in a strange kitchen, he is greeted by a group of talking dogs who serve pastry and bread to a crowd of dancing people. Led by a hungry stove wanting to eat, the dancers encourage Mickey to return to his bedroom and continue crying. When he returns, the crying spell ends and his mother comforts him. Mickey then awakens in his bed, realizing it was all a dream. The kitchen and the characters in it are all symbolic. The kitchen symbolizes the world and the people and objects within it represent aspects of the self. The story was first published as a picture book in 1970 with illustrations by Maurice Sendak. It was adapted into a short animated film in 1980, with a score by John Cougar Mellencamp, and won an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.
On the eve of the American Empire's 400th anniversary, Empress Augusta celebrates the completion of a victorious war against the Colonial Republic with an evening of ceremony and spectacle. The Empress intends to announce the annexation of Canada, which will make the Empire dominant on the North American continent. However, terrorists disrupt the proceedings by exploding a massive bomb in the Imperial Forum, killing and wounding many, and taking Empress Augusta hostage. The explosion sends shock waves throughout the Empire and leaves behind a pile of anarchy, betrayal, and corruption. As the Empire begins to crumble from within, Empress Augusta's abductor, Adam, and his team of rebels intend to expose the Empire's injustice, and the parasitic nature of its power. Ultimately, the team hopes to ignite a revolution that would dismantle the Empire and reunite the fractured states of America. Among the team of rebels are a former attorney turned hacker, a seductive and enigmatic assassin, and a former Imperial Marine commander-turned-mercenary. As the rebellion begins an all-out war against the Empire, Cpt. Anton Shaw begins investigating the bombing and the kidnapping of the Empress. His investigation leads him to the one person who may have insight into what happened that day, and why: Empress Augusta's chambermaid, Catherine. While Empress Augusta languishes in captivity, and the Empire begins its descent into chaos, Catherine must decide where her true loyalty lies. Will she help Cpt. Shaw stop the rebellion and save the Empire, or will she side with Adam and his
On the eve of the American Revolution, Samuel Graves, the last Royal Governor of Massachusetts, breakfasts with his family and several loyalists, including Paul Revere. Graves predicts warfare and assures his wife that Britain will easily win. Later, Samuel's son, William, vows to destroy the rebels. That night, William clandestinely boards a ship bound for London, carrying letters from his father to the Secretaries of State and the King. The ship's captain, Benjamin Martin, discovers a secret message from Samuel to British spymaster George Germain indicating that Samuel will cooperate with Germain's plans to sabotage the Continental Congress. Martin decides to sail to Halifax to deliver his cargo before crossing to England. When the ship is three days out of Boston, Martin's crew mutinies, kills the captain, and heads for Nassau. William is wounded in the shoulder and takes refuge on a desert island before eventually returning to Boston. The story then introduces the protagonist, Jonathan Pine. Jonathan is the son of Liberty Movement leader Henry Pine and is engaged to a woman named Charlotte. Jonathan, against his father's orders, leads a failed attack on a British naval vessel. He is arrested and sentenced to die, but a British officer named John Curry has him branded and then released. Jonathan joins the Continental Army, hoping to kill Colonel Paul Revere. The story then jumps to 1781. Curry – now a general – and William Graves are advisors to Comte de Grasse, who is sailing to Virginia to assist with the
In 1986, Mildred Rule moves to Lafayette, Louisiana, where her daughter, Wally, is institutionalized after murdering her husband, Earl. Wally claims Earl raped her, but Mildred suspects Wally only injured Earl and is trying to cover up the crime. Ignoring warnings from her neighbors, Mildred pursues a relationship with Wally, who does not remember the incident due to epilepsy-induced seizures. Wally's doctors are optimistic that she will recover, but Mildred's attempts to reunite with her daughter only exacerbate Wally's seizures. After being rejected by Wally, Mildred reflects on her past. She grew up in an abusive family and suffered from epilepsy. Despite the disorder, Mildred became a successful lawyer in California. After being abandoned by her boyfriend, she had Wally with her husband, who died shortly after the birth. Seeking a better life for her daughter, Mildred moved to Lafayette, where she worked in a law firm. The firm's senior partner, Warner Purcell, became infatuated with Mildred. When she rejected his advances, he fired her. With help from her neighbor and friend, Caroline, Mildred opens her own law firm. She takes on Wally's case in an attempt to prove her daughter's innocence. Mildred's investigation leads her to Dr. Leon Wellstone, a fertility doctor connected to the abortion-pill controversy. She suspects that Earl's death is linked to the controversy, and that Wally may have been pregnant with Earl's child. After learning that Wellstone performed experiments on epilepsy patients in the 1970s, Mildred suspects that Wally's epilepsy is not natural. Mildred's ex-husband,
In 1986, Willie Mitchum Wayans, wife ofTeaching Improvement Rounds officer Marvin Wayans, is murdered in their home in Miami, Florida, along with her daughter Cassandre, and leaving behind her distraught 9-year-old son, Brandon. Barely escaping the ordeal is Angela tertiary, who was babysitting for the Wayans family that evening. Charged with the triple homicide is Angela's boyfriend, Kyle Butler, who claims that he was framed for the murders by drug lord Josefina substances. Isolated as the only witness, Angela's credibility is questioned and she is remanded to custody in a youth detention center while the legal system decides whether or not to charge her as an adult. Eleven years later, Angela, now 30 years old, is paralyzed by guilt for not having done anything to prevent the horrific murders, in spite of her young age and intimidation by Kyle, and has developed various phobias and reflex actions as a result. She also despises herself for not telling anyone that she had seen Kyle batter Willie on several occasions. In 1997, Angela is released from the youth detention center, having served her entire sentence despite her attorney's appeal that she be released based on her age when she was arrested and her handicap, and is picked up by her mother, Phyllis. Phyllis brings Angela home, where she meets Phyllis's husband, Jerry, and her 15-year-old son, Matthew. That night, Angela is terrified when she sees someone outside her window, but tells no one. The next day, she attends a support group for
Murder at School is a murder mystery young adult novel by author Anne Fine. It is set in and around a secondary school in North East England, and the plot begins when the school's old caretaker is murdered the night before the start of term. Police suspect a man who was seen arguing with the caretaker earlier that night, but release him due to a lack of evidence. The new school year begins, and tutor Sally McGowan finds a suicide note in the desk of new student Philip Hayland, who admits to feeling hopeless, but claims that he is not suicidal. Sally feels sorry for Philip, and things quickly progress to a sexual relationship. Philip appears to be enjoying school, but Sally later finds another note in his desk, this time urging the reader to "stop it". Sally assumes that the note is a reference to Philip's homicidal tendencies, and that he intends to kill her. She begins to receive mysterious packages in the mail, and suspects that they are from Philip. When the packages contain a box of poisoned chocolates, Sally fears for her life and goes into hiding. She eventually returns to school to confront Philip, but he denies any knowledge of the packages. Sally's colleague, art teacher Arthur Cleghorn, has also been receiving mysterious packages. When one of them turns out to be a bomb, he suspects that Philip is the sender. Arthur and Sally meet with Philip and his mother, and discover that Philip's uncle was
The story is about a woman named Helen who is mourning the loss of her husband. He died in a car accident, which she barely survived. After this, Helen starts to experience strange things at night. She hears noises, and sees figures standing in the shadows. At first, she thinks it's her husband's spirit, come to comfort her, but then she realizes it's something more sinister. The creatures are a type of vampire, and they're coming for her. Helen must fight for her life, and her soul, as the vampires try to drag her to hell.
The story is about Alan Austen, a pilot who is haunted by his wartime past after being rescued from the Pacific by a mysterious stranger. He is unable to remember anything about the incident and is troubled by recurring nightmares. He becomes fascinated by a mysterious neighbour, Miss Marchmont, and begins to suspect that she is hiding a dangerous secret. Austen discovers that Marchmont is a practitioner of the occult and is attempting to use him in a Satanic ritual. He is aided in his fight against Marchmont by his wife, who has discovered her husband's infidelity and is looking for a way to get back at him. The couple team up to defeat Marchmont and escape her evil clutches, with the help of an eccentric inventor and his wife.
Monsieur Pain is a novel by the French writer Georges Simenon, first published in 1935. It tells the story of a man who is tired of living disguised as a misanthropic and reclusive painter named Monsieur Pain. Given the opportunity to escape from his current life, he instead decides to stay and solve a murder mystery. The novel was first published in English in 1935, translated by Claud Cockburn. It was published under the title The Patience of Monsieur Pain in November 2013 by Pushkin Press, in a new translation by Frank Wynne. Monsieur Pain is one of Simenon's earliest and most popular works. It has been adapted several times for film and television. The novel is told entirely from the point of view of Monsieur Pain. He is a middle-aged man who has withdrawn from the world and lives in a small village near Paris. Known locally as a misanthrope and reclusive artist, he is respected by the community but largely avoided. One day he meets a woman named Anne, who reminds him of his former wife. He begins to think about his past and tells the story of his life to her over several meetings. The first part of the novel describes the main events of Pain's life: his comfortable childhood in a wealthy family; his marriage to a woman named Thérèse; the birth of their daughter, Anne; and his gradual decline into poverty after losing all of his money gambling. Thérèse leaves him, and Pain is left
Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, the son of a tanner who died in a cholera epidemic, is born in Paris in 1738 with an extraordinary sense of smell. Haunted by the stench of the tanning yard and the suspicious death of his father, he decides to leave town. He walks to Brasserie perfume, where he befriends the owner, Baldini, who teaches him the art of perfume making. Grenouille displays a remarkable ability to blend and create fragrances. While delivering a perfume to a noblewoman, he saves her from a group of attackers. The grateful woman, Madame Gaillard, takes him into her home and introduces him to high society. Recognizing his outstanding talent for perfume, Baldini convinces Grenouille to become an apprentice. Grenouille proves to be a fast learner and soon begins creating his own signature fragrances. However, his work is interrupted when he overhears a group of nobles discussing a string of mysterious deaths in the city. The deaths are linked to a group of plague victims, and the talkers suspect that the plague is being spread through the sewers. Grenouille, who has an extreme aversion to filth and decay, realizes that the plague is being spread by the smell and decides to investigate. He discovers a hidden world beneath the city's streets, where the poor and destitute live in squalor. Among them, he finds the source of the plague - a trapped and desperate man who is unable to control his flatulence. Grenouille manages to contain the man and eliminate the smell,
House of Incest is a novel written by Iraqi novelist Abdul Rahman Munif and published in 2000. It fantasy story about an incestuous family who never shows their faces. The father marries a series of women, who either leave or die, and who are all referred to as "the mother". The novel is divided into four parts and reveals the family's history through a non-linear narrative. The book was translated into English by Jonathan Wright and published by Bloomsbury in 2004. Wright said that Munif "intended it as a comedy, though many readers, especially in the English-speaking world, have found it a dark and disturbing book." Munif commented on the novel: "My new novel, The House of Incest, is an attempt to fictionalize the atmosphere of the age of chaos and tyranny we live in, and my diagnosis of it is that we are living in a prison from which there is no escape, because we surrendered ourselves to it willingly, just as the characters in my novel did."
House of Incest is a 2004 novel written by Iraqi novelist Sinan Antoon. It was originally published in Arabic as Bayt al-Ful, which means "The House of Fiction" and is an allusion to One Thousand and One Nights. The English edition, translated by Ivan RajFP, was published by Yale University Press in 2007. The novel is the final part of a trilogy that includes The Pomegranate and The Two Gardens. The novel is set in 2003, in the Shia neighborhood of Al-Adhamiyah in Baghdad, shortly before the US invasion. It focuses on the women of the Al-Naqib family as they struggle to come to terms with the authoritarian and oppressive environment in which they live. The patriarch of the family, Abu fatty, has recently died, and his wife, Souad, now has control of the family and becomes a different person, shedding her formerly shy and reserved personality and assuming control of the household. The novel describes the oppression of the female characters by Souad and the struggle of the two daughters of the family, Karima and Layla, to assert themselves against their mother and aunts. The eldest daughter, Tamadir, escapes from the house to marry a poor man and dies giving birth to a stillborn child. The tragedy of Tamadir brings a degree of unity between the women of the family as they bond together in their shared grief.
Mrs. Dalloway is a novel by Virginia Woolf, first published in 1925. It addresses themes of mental illness and shell shock, homosexuality, and English society during and after the First World War. The novel's protagonist is Clarissa Dalloway, a middle-class woman in her late 40s living in the Westminster district of London. As she prepares for a party she is to host that evening, she reminisces about her childhood, her marriage, her husband, and the contemporary social order. Over the course of the day, Clarissa receives several unexpected visits, and as she goes about her preparations, she has a stream of thoughts and flashbacks, many concerning Peter Walsh, an old friend whose proposal she rejected many years ago, and Sally Seton, a friend who stole her husband from her. She also thinks about Septimus Smith, a young man she knows through her husband, who suffers from severe shell shock. The novel is partially told through the eyes of a third-person narrator and is divided into three separate storylines. The novel's first section deals with Mrs. Dalloway's preparations for her party. The second section, which makes up the bulk of the novel, is a first-person narrative from the point of view of Septimus Smith, while the third and final section returns to the point of view of Mrs. Dalloway and her party. Septimus Smith is a young man who has survived the First World War but is unable to cope with civilian life due to his shell shock. He lives in
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel is a novel written by Nikos Kazantzakis and published in 1938. It is a sequel to Homer's Odyssey, picking up where the ancient epic left off. It follows the journey of Odysseus' son, Telemachus, as he searches for his father and tries to reunite his family. The novel is divided into three parts. The first part, "Telemachus Alone", takes place on Ithaca and focuses on Telemachus' struggle to come of age and take control of his father's kingdom. The second part, "The Voyage", follows Telemachus as he travels to the island of Calypso, where his father has been living for the past seven years. The third part, "The Return", follows Telemachus as he returns to Ithaca and struggles to reunite his family. Along the way, Telemachus encounters many of the same characters as his father did in the original Odyssey, including the goddess Athena, the monsters Scylla and Charybdis, and the enchantress Circe. He also meets new characters, such as the philosopher Socrates and the adventurer Don Quixote. The novel is a retelling of the classic epic, but with a modern twist. Kazantzakis uses the characters and events of the original Odyssey to explore themes such as the meaning of life, the nature of love, and the importance of family. He also uses the novel to critique the modern world, which he saw as materialistic and corrupt. Overall, The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel is a thought-provoking and engaging novel that brings the world of the
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel is a novel written by Nicholas Willey in 1938, completing the story of Odysseus as he returns to his wife and son in the modern world. Odysseus, through the fortunes of war and the ravages of time, has survived to old age but his family has not. Telemachus, his son, is a faded scholar, paralyzed by indecision and uncertainty, and Penelope, his wife, has fallen prey to despair and hungers for the excitement of youth. Odysseus also reunites with Elpenor, his childhood friend and lieutenant, now a businessman who has made his fortune in the chrome industry. horizonal. The goal of the novel is for Odysseus to regain his rightful place as king of Ithaca and to re-establish his family and position in society. Throughout the novel, Willey explores the themes of war, time, and fate, and how these forces can shape and alter individuals and their relationships. The novel also examines the idea of destiny and how it can be influenced by personal choice and action. Odysseus is presented as a heroic figure, but one who is also vulnerable to the effects of time and mortality. The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel is a thought-provoking and compelling novel that combines elements of ancient mythology with the realities of modern life. It is a unique and innovative work that has earned Willey critical acclaim for his creative reimagining of the classic tale.
The novel follows the story of a man known as "the loser," who is struggling to come to terms with his failure in life. The man, who is unnamed, feels like he has failed at every aspect of his life, from his career to his relationships. As he reflects on his failures, he begins to wonder if he is just a loser, or if there is something more to him. He soon meets a woman named Diana, who helps him to see that he is not a loser, but rather a victim of his own self-doubt and negative thinking. With Diana's help, he is able to overcome his self-doubt and start living a more fulfilling life. The two characters fall in love and marry. The man is able to find success in his career and is finally able to move out of his parents' house. The man's success is short-lived, however, as he soon finds himself in a career downturn, ultimately losing his job. This causes the man to slip back into his negative thinking and he becomes increasingly paranoid. Eventually, Diana leaves him, unable to cope with his downward spiral. Once again, the man is directionless and alone, driving around aimlessly, sleeping in his car, and eating at soup kitchens. As he hits rock bottom, the man remembers the words of encouragement that Diana had given him and begins to realize that he is not a loser, but a good person who has fallen on hard times. He begins
The novel follows the struggles of its narrator, Harry Holyphamey, an eccentric, anonymous hacker living in Munich, as he attempts to come to terms with his past. As a child, Harry and his mother are nearly killed in an automobile accident, and Harry is subsequently raised by his aunt, who paints a dismal picture of his mother, and his grandfather, who induces in him a sense of insecurity. As a young man, Harry becomes involved in the bohemian cycling and squatting scene in Munich. When his bicycle is stolen, he responds by developing a laptop program to steal bicycle decals from unwary cyclists, later using the decals to sell expensive bicycle parts to other cyclists online, using his hacker alias "Limbo". He becomes involved in a relationship with a woman named Martha, who serves as his custodial accomplice in his decal operation, but ultimately leaves him for another man. Subsequently, Harry attempts to mend his relationship with his mother, who rejected him as a child, and becomes increasingly obsessed with cycling, cycling culture, and dieting, at one point engaging in an obsessive relationship with a Tutta Berlin ("tee-oh-tah bike" in German) named Lissla. Throughout the course of the novel, Harry grapples with feelings of worthlessness and mourning, ultimately culminating in an attempt to suicide by drowning himself in a lake. At the last moment he is rescued by three African refugees and decides to live and donate his laptop to them.
In the near future, an alien virus nearly exterminates Earth's population. Those who remain live in cities surrounded by giant walls that keep them safe from mutant creatures referred to as "abnormals". The story follows a scientist named Yang who lives in one of these cities. While working to find a cure for the virus, Yang discovers that he has developed immunity to it. He and a group of other immune survivors, including his wife, Shu, and daughter, Mei, work to find a cure for the virus while fighting to survive against the abnormals. As they work to find a cure, Yang begins to have flashbacks of his past, including his childhood in a small village and his career as a scientist before the pandemic. These flashbacks increasingly distract him from his work, and he begins to suspect that they are not random memories, but instead are clues that will lead him to the cure. As the group works to unravel the mystery of the flashbacks, they discover that the cure may not be as simple as they hoped. The virus has had a profound effect on Yang's mind, and the key to the cure may lie in his own memories. As the group works to piece together the clues, they find themselves drawn into a web of conspiracy and betrayal that threatens to tear them apart. Despite the odds against them, Yang and the others are determined to find a cure and save the human race. But as the
In the near future, Kalinov Genya, a Russian intelligence officer, and Viva72, a sex worker, have fallen in love and intend to leave the Moscow criminal underground for Viva's native Finland. Genya is a "phantom"; a super-soldier with a genetically engineered exterior that renders him nearly impervious and with superhuman strength and speed. His weapon of choice is a katana; he suffers from nostalgia and frequently listens to Japanoise. Viva72's memories of her early life have been erased; she does not know who abducted and sold her into slavery three years earlier, but she has a recurring nightmare of a sleeved hand grabbing her and a voice whispering in her ear. When they attempt to leave, General Novakovich, also a phantom and the boss of Moscow's criminal underworld, discovers their plan and has them captured. He decides to have Viva sent back to the mansion where she was held as a slave and initially refuses to believe Genya's account of how he met her. Genya recalls the preceding three years in a non-linear fashion. He recalls being summoned to thedmovskaya station by a "red man", a reference to the mythological bodhisattva who liberates entities from the cycle of rebirth. The red man turns out to be Ivanovich, a seemingly homeless man who is actually a high-ranking official in the FSB and has been charged with locating and monitoring the "ghosts", people whose identities have been erased and who are therefore of no use to the government. Ivanovich has located such
The story is about a young man named Paul who is coming of age in a middle-class family in the early 20th century. He is struggling to understand his place in the world and the role that he plays in society. He begins to question his upbringing and the values that he has been taught. He starts to rebel against his family and society, and he begins to pursue his own path. The story follows his journey as he tries to find himself and his place in the world. Along the way, he encounters a variety of characters and situations that help him to grow and develop as a person. He learns about love, loss, friendship, and the importance of family. In the end, he comes to understand his own potential and the role that he can play in society.
The story is about Willie Upstairs and Rex Vallance, two boys living in the same London street, but in very different circumstances. Willie lives with his extroverted and glamorous mother, in a flat beneath the house of Vallances. Rex's father, Colonel Vallance, is a proud, laconic, and much-decorated soldier who is away with his regiment most of the time, fighting in the Second World War. Rex's mother died when he was young, and since then he has been largely raised by Rose, the housekeeper. Rex goes to a private school and tolerates the bullying of Cavalier Secondari, the son of an Italian businessman. Willie lives in poverty, seldom attended by his unemployed and alcoholic mother, but adored by the tenants upstairs, particularly Mrs. Vallance and Rose. He is a lonely child and finds it hard to make friends. He is frightened of commitment, and finds it easier to attach himself to adults, particularly when they are in difficulties. Rex, by contrast, is more self-sufficient, but less equipped to deal with the problems of adulthood. The action unfolds through the eyes of Willie, as he grows up in the war years, though the story begins in 1939, when the threat of war seemed real but remote, and when Willie was only four. It ends in 1945, when he is nearly twelve and the war has transformed the lives of everyone he knows. War breaks out while Colonel Vallance is on leave. He immediately volunteers for active service and is sent to
In the land of Parska, the basilisk has been unleashed, and masses of people have been turned into stone. Several seemingly unconnected people find that they are in fact part of an ancient prophecy that foresees the end of the basilisk, saving the land from its devastating effects. The protagonist, Relkin, is a wandering musician who is unable to remember his past. He is rescued by a beautiful woman named Neala, who is also unaware of her own past. She takes him to the city of Corialis, where an ancient sorceress named Selene has been turned into a child. Selene's father, Damias, is trying to use her powers to take over the city, and it is up to Relkin and Neala to thwart his plans and help Selene regain her true form. Along the way, they are joined by an ancient warrior named Hawkwind, and a quirky wizard named Ulric, who is trying to discover a way to transform himself back into a full-sized wizard.
Kathelin Grey is a young woman who has learned hardly any magic; indeed her only magical tool is a single arrow that will find the person who is closest to her heart. This arrow, once sent, will not return for a year and a day. Kathelin is in love with a young guardsman, Holgren, who does not return her affection due to a disagreement between their respective social classes. Through an unfortunate set of circumstances, Holgren is accused of a murder he did not commit, and sentenced to death. Kathelin sends her arrow, which will not return for many months, and decides that she has enough time to travel to the distant city of Orgrylle, where Holgren is being held. She poses as a boy, and takes a job as a messenger. Against all odds, she reaches Orgrylle, and succeeds in bribing one of the jailers to release Holgren. They flee the city, but are chased by guardsmen. Holgren convinces Kathelin to abandon him, which she does, and she returns to her home, where she discovers that her arrow has returned. She learns that it returned much sooner than it should have because Holgren loved her in return all along; when the arrow contacted his heart, he was happy because he knew that Kathelin would come to save him. Sadly, Holgren's sentence was changed to "death by spells" after Kathelin's departure, and he was savagely tortured and killed by wizards when they discovered that there was no hope of rescuing
Once, the island of Kalaya was a peaceful place, but now, it is in danger. The island's dangerous sirens are about to unleash a mysterious, powerful force that will plunge all of the inhabitants into chaos. The only person who can stop them is a young woman named Kahlyn, but she might be part of the sirens' deadly plan. The island's new Protector, Kali, is determined to stop the sirens from destroying the home and people she loves. She has studied the sirens her entire life and knows their strengths and weaknesses more than anyone. But there is one thing that she doesn't know - and that is the sirens' secret. The sirens' secret is a mysterious, powerful force that they have been hiding for centuries. It is so powerful that it can destroy entire islands and wipe out entire civilizations. The sirens are planning to use it to take over the world and make the humans their slaves. Kahlyn has a secret of her own. She is a Siren herself, but she doesn't know it. She has the ability to control the elements and has been using her powers to protect the island. But as she gets closer to the sirens, she starts to realize that she is part of their deadly plan. As the sirens get ready to unleash their secret, it is up to Kali and Kahlyn to stop them. They must put their differences aside and work together to save the island and its people. But
Once, the Isles were ruled by goddesses. But that was in another age, before the Fall of Phaelos. Now, the islands are governed by men and increasingly reliant on commerce with neighboring Lindron. It's a relatively peaceful relationship, but one that is falling apart. War is seemingly inevitable. Aspasia is a woman living in the island village of Hypata. She has no family, no lovers, and has spent years training to be a washerwoman beneath the ruthless gaze of her mistress. It's a thankless job, and Aspasia has little hope of finding a better life. When the powerful resonant sirens visit Hypata, Aspasia catches the attention of two of them. The siren Phaedra sees her as a possible ally, someone who could help keep the peace with Lindron. The siren Melpomene, however, is suspicious of Aspasia and thinks she's a spy for Lindron's merchants. Aspasia is recruited by Melpomene to help with a secret task, one that takes her across the sea to Lindron. There, she strikes up an unlikely friendship with the governor's son, Erixos. The two of them share a common enemy in the resonant sirens and a growing attraction for one another. As Aspasia falls deeper into the secrets of Erixos and the sirens, she becomes more uncertain of whom to trust. While she has allies in both camps, both Phaedra and Melpomene seem determined to pull her in opposite directions. If Aspasia can't decide where her loyalties lie, she'll lose everything--including her life.
Dragonfire is the fourth and final novel in the Hunter series by Irish author Cate Tiernan. It was published in 2004. As the final novel in the series, it is preceded by Hunter, Huntress, and Straynight. In this novel, the main character, Rachel Adams, finally discovers the identity of her true birth mother. She and her boyfriend, Shane McConnor, finally have sex. The novel begins with a preface describing how the Hunters began. It continues with a description of the main characters' current circumstances. Rachel is in a deep depression over the recent and sudden death of her best friend, Sarah. Shane is worried about Rachel and feels helpless because he is unable to comfort her. A letter arrives for Rachel containing a cryptic message from her birth mother, who is revealed to be alive. With the help of her boyfriend Shane and her foster mother Anne, Rachel discovers that her birth mother is Michelle "Mikki" Kennedy, the wife of Senator Robert Kennedy, and that she is the product of an affair. Determined to meet her mother, Rachel, Shane, and Anne travel to Cape Cod, Massachusetts, where Mikki is currently residing. Once they arrive, Rachel learns that Mikki is a member of a mysterious group of women called the Ciguapa, whose mission is to protect the environment from destruction. The Ciguapa is at war with another organization called the Merinita, who are determined to destroy the environment in order to prove that they are the superior race. In the course
Dragonfire is the fourth and final novel in the Hunter series by Australian author Jack Heath. It follows the adventures of fortune hunter Bryton Shah. In Dragonfire, Bryton Shah finds a mysterious ancient tablet shaped like a dragon that literally burns anyone who touches it. Before he knows it, he's swept up in a race across the globe to find the three other objects that can unite with the tablet to create a weapon that could destroy the world. Shah and his allies, including nemesis Anne Barrel and love interest Lin Mai, are pursued by the superpowered Rio Mananya, who is aided by the mind-controlling Doge and the murdererills, deadly creatures who were trapped below Shanghai hundreds of years earlier. The tablet first brings Bryton into the hunt when it seemingly kills him but he is revived by the power of the dragon stone. The tablet is then stolen by Mai who retains it until the very end of the book when she sacrifices herself to destroy it. The dragon is then revealed to have been drawn to the London Mithraeum, where the last two objects have been drawn, and opens a portal for the dragon to come through. The novel ends in an apocalyptic clash between the dragon and Rio with the fate of the world at stake.
Orphan at My Door is a 2012 novel written by American author Pam Muñoz Ryan. The story follows Arthur, a 12-year-old boy who is forced to leave his abusive father after his mother's death. He is taken in by a doctor who lives in a small California town. Arthur meets Maddy, a girl his age who is confined to a wheelchair, and helps her recover from her traumatic past. The story follows both Arthur and Maddy as they learn to deal with their respective pasts while also helping each other move forward with their lives.
On a winter's night, repairsman Andy Fowler arrives at the home of ER nurse Caroline Rowland, whose boiler is malfunctioning. Andy is a sweet, gentle, and shy man, and during the course of his repair work, Caroline notices his unusually generous spirit, strong work ethic, and kindness. A widowed mother of two, Caroline is struggling with her children's increasingly severe behavioral problems, which have not abated since the death of her husband in a car accident a year earlier. Caroline's son, Jude, has become sullen and withdrawn and frequently gets into fights at school, while her daughter, Maggie, has grown boastful, cruel, and manipulative, with few friends. Caroline is overwhelmed and frustrated by her inability to connect with her children and control their behavior and wonders if she can somehow connect with Jude and Maggie and make her family whole again. After learning that Andy is living in his van after his release from jail, Caroline invites him to stay with her while he looks for somewhere permanent to live. Though Andy is grateful for Caroline's help, he is ashamed of his circumstances and nervous about living with a woman for the first time, having grown up with an abusive father and never having had a normal adult relationship with a woman. Gradually, Caroline and Andy grow closer, and one night they kiss, after which Andy moves out so that Caroline can devote her attention to her children. Meanwhile, Caroline's daughter Maggie has been cruel to a classmate, Sarah, and
Chigira Kennoshishi, the patriarch of a poor fishing family, dies saving the life of an American journalist named Frank Nagai from drowning in a tsunami. Enraged by his father's death, Kennoshishi's son, Tomonori, swears revenge on Americans and takes to the sea to exact it. After weathering a storm, he and his crew rescue Nagai's daughter, Linda, and her fiancé, Richard, from the sea. Richard's father, Nelson, is the owner of a tuna cannery. Due to a contractual agreement with the Japanese fishing federation, Nelson is allowed to fish in Japanese waters, but every year, he must pay a tribute of 100 frozen tuna to the fishermen of Kikuchi village, where the Kennoshishi family live. Tomonori resents the Americans not only for the death of his father, but also for encroaching on Japanese fishing grounds. His feelings are amplified by Kazuo, the leader of the village, who uses Tomonori's thirst for revenge to further his own plans for economic prosperity. Meanwhile, Linda and Richard fall in love with Japan and its people. Linda develops a close relationship with Tomonori, to the point where she begins to question her engagement to Richard. Tomonori and his crew plot to sink Richard's ship as revenge for Chigira's death. Tomonori's sister, Terue, opposes the plot due to the danger it poses to Linda's life. During the attack on the ship, Richard's hand is severed and he falls overboard. Tomonori retrieves him and takes him to an island to heal. There, Tomonori and Linda kiss,
Churning seas. Thirty-foot waves. A diminutive vessel sailing through the nighttime ocean. A little girl lying on her bed, eyes closed, bracing for the coming tsunami. Through a trilogy of interconnected stories, the threat of the wave runs as an undercurrent, building in intensity and magnitude until it can no longer be ignored. In the past, a fisherman nicknames Pelé rides out a storm that hits his village, located on a small island off the coast of Massachusetts. The storm batters the island, destroying the village and killing its inhabitants. Pelé is the only survivor, and he finds himself stranded on a piece of timber. He watches in horror as the tsunami waves approach, but they pass him by, leaving him to wonder why he was spared. In the present, Huynh, a Vietnamese boy, is also adrift at sea, along with thirty other survivors from a capsized ferry. They manage to scramble onto a small boat, but a giant wave separates most of the passengers, and eventually Huynh finds himself alone. He wakes after the wave has passed to find himself on a small, desertlike island with only one other inhabitant: an older woman who does not speak his language. Using salvaged materials, they build a larger vessel to sail away, but the woman steers their boat into the open sea, intent on fleeing from the pursuing tsunami. In the future, a young girl in Indonesia named Rayna is anxious about the impending earthquake that she knows will hit her
The Other Log of Phileas Fogg is a novel written by Josh Reynolds, and is a sequel to Phileas Fogg's journey around the world. The novel is broken up into several "logs," with the first two being Phileas Fogg's journal, and the second being that of Detective Fix. The story takes place in 1872, thirteen years after the original journey, and centers on the idea that Phileas Fogg has gone missing. Detective Fix, who has been attempting to arrest Fogg for the criminal act of traveling with a prostitute (Aouda), is tasked with finding and arresting him, and so Fix begins his own journey around the world. About a month into his journey, Fix reads Fogg's journal, which was stolen from Fogg's estate by the thief, and it is then that the reader finds out that Fogg has been murdered by a ghost, and that the logs are actually a dialogue between the living and the dead.
The novel describes a dystopian future in which the Ice Age has abruptly returned after an unprecedented climatic change. Most of Eurasia and North America have been covered by glaciers, and the sea level has risen, flooding coastal areas. Remnants of the human race have survived in three "islands" where the climate is still tolerable: the temperate parts of Africa, India, and South America. In addition, there are small pockets of survivors in China and New Zealand. The former has formed a kingdom called Yu, and the latter has formed a proto-democracy called Ma-land. The narrative primarily follows the people of Ma-land, who struggle to survive through the harsh climate and terrain and must come to terms with their new culture and society. The government of Ma-land is a constitutional monarchy, modeled after the British and Dutch governments of the 19th century. The people of Ma-land value democracy, but they have difficulty adapting to its rules and regulations. The government is unstable, and the people are divided into three factions: the "Islanders", the "Militants", and the "Mercenaries". The Islanders are the original Ma-landers, who are struggling to keep their land from being taken over by the Militants, who are bent on establishing a military dictatorship. The Mercenaries are a group of elite warriors who are trying to conquer Ma-land for their own gain. The novel follows the adventures of a young man named Alisander, who is born on Ma-land and is determined to make a difference in the world. He
The action takes place in an undefined future, presumably several hundred years from now. The novel is a complex combination of Utopian and Dystopian themes. The location of the action remains the same as our world, but society has changed profoundly. The scenery is sometimes bleak, sometimes lush, but most of the action takes place in the territory of a newly discovered continent named Westeros. Westeros is a vast continent, largely wilderness, with great areas of permafrost and a very thin population. It is across the sea from the other continent, known as East Egg. The inhabitants of Westeros call the people from the other continent "Reds," because most of them have some reddish skin tone. The Reds are confined to their own continent by a natural occurrence that almost completely blocks the strait between the two, which occurs as an intense "curtain" of electrically charged air. The phenomenon occurs daily and closes the strait each night. A similar, naturally occurring "curtain" blocks the northern coastline of Westeros, isolating the residents from the Arctic regions. Elsewhere, the seas have risen, producing disasters, but most land masses on Earth appear essentially unchanged. Inhabitants of Westeros refer to the "Outer Lands" when speaking of the rest of the world. Most of the action in the book takes place in several widely separated locations within Westeros, including the capital, Havilyows, and several relatively isolated settlements, the most important of which is named New Ark. New Ark is the headquarters of the "Green Folk,"
Vendetta is a novel by American author Fred Mustard Stewart, published in 1886. The story is set in Italy, in and around Naples, with brief sojourns to Rome and Florence. The central character is Giorgio Vasari, a painter, whose adventures reconcile him to the traditional social hierarchies of Italy, and provide the impetus for him to marry a young contessa, Felippa Corsinelli. The first half of the book details Giorgio's attempts to woo Felippa, while living in the Corsinelli family palace. After a series of misadventures, including the unintended murder of a policeman, Giorgio flees to Rome, where he is befriended by Cardinal Rasponi. After an audience with the Pope, he receives a pardon for the murder, and returns to Naples. The second half of the book follows Giorgio's efforts to use his pardon to his advantage. He succeeds, and marries Felippa. The novel closes with the pair's departure for Florence.
vendettaitaliana La Vendetta (English: Vengeance) is an 1860 novel by the Italian writer Camillo Boito, published under the pseudonym of Halley. The plot is a revenge tragedy, a genre derived from Shakespeare. The novel concerns Italian unification, spectrality, and the unquiet spirit of a woman scorned. First published in Milan in 1860, it became the most famous work by one of the most famous authors of the Young Italy movement, Camillo Boito, who wrote it under the pseudonym of Halley. La Vendetta is the first example of the vampire genre in Italian literature and predates Dracula by forty years. The novel concerns the protagonist Gondì, a noblewoman in Pondeca, a small town in Piedmontese Italy, who plans to marryoner Turriano Borghini, but he is killed on the night of their wedding. Gondi dies shortly thereafter, and a sinister legend arises in which Gondi returns from the grave to stalk her hometown. Turriano's brother Alberto fears the ghost the most, since he believes Gondi died because he jilted her. He marries her on the same day and in the same dress she wore on her wedding to Turriano. Subsequently, he goes to fight for the Italian unificationist cause alongside Giovanni Faliero, the doge of Venice, and falls in love with Faliero's daughter. When he returns to Pondeca, he sees Gondi's ghost. Gradually, he becomes increasingly afflicted with guilt and fears that he is being haunted by Gondi's specter. When he is about to join Gondi in bed, he sees that her