The recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) combined with the extensive amount of data generated by today's clinical systems, has led to the development of imaging AI solutions across the whole value chain of medical imaging, including image reconstruction, medical image segmentation, image-based diagnosis and treatment planning. Notwithstanding the successes and future potential of AI in medical imaging, many stakeholders are concerned of the potential risks and ethical implications of imaging AI solutions, which are perceived as complex, opaque, and difficult to comprehend, utilise, and trust in critical clinical applications. Despite these concerns and risks, there are currently no concrete guidelines and best practices for guiding future AI developments in medical imaging towards increased trust, safety and adoption. To bridge this gap, this paper introduces a careful selection of guiding principles drawn from the accumulated experiences, consensus, and best practices from five large European projects on AI in Health Imaging. These guiding principles are named FUTURE-AI and its building blocks consist of (i) Fairness, (ii) Universality, (iii) Traceability, (iv) Usability, (v) Robustness and (vi) Explainability. In a step-by-step approach, these guidelines are further translated into a framework of concrete recommendations for specifying, developing, evaluating, and deploying technically, clinically and ethically trustworthy AI solutions into clinical practice.
High-quality training data play a key role in image segmentation tasks. Usually, pixel-level annotations are expensive, laborious and time-consuming for the large volume of training data. To reduce labelling cost and improve segmentation quality, interactive segmentation methods have been proposed, which provide the result with just a few clicks. However, their performance does not meet the requirements of practical segmentation tasks in terms of speed and accuracy. In this work, we propose EdgeFlow, a novel architecture that fully utilizes interactive information of user clicks with edge-guided flow. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without any post-processing or iterative optimization scheme. Comprehensive experiments on benchmarks also demonstrate the superiority of our method. In addition, with the proposed method, we develop an efficient interactive segmentation tool for practical data annotation tasks. The source code and tool is avaliable at https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSeg.
The success of deep learning methods in medical image segmentation tasks heavily depends on a large amount of labeled data to supervise the training. On the other hand, the annotation of biomedical images requires domain knowledge and can be laborious. Recently, contrastive learning has demonstrated great potential in learning latent representation of images even without any label. Existing works have explored its application to biomedical image segmentation where only a small portion of data is labeled, through a pre-training phase based on self-supervised contrastive learning without using any labels followed by a supervised fine-tuning phase on the labeled portion of data only. In this paper, we establish that by including the limited label in formation in the pre-training phase, it is possible to boost the performance of contrastive learning. We propose a supervised local contrastive loss that leverages limited pixel-wise annotation to force pixels with the same label to gather around in the embedding space. Such loss needs pixel-wise computation which can be expensive for large images, and we further propose two strategies, downsampling and block division, to address the issue. We evaluate our methods on two public biomedical image datasets of different modalities. With different amounts of labeled data, our methods consistently outperform the state-of-the-art contrast-based methods and other semi-supervised learning techniques.
Simultaneous segmentation of multiple organs from different medical imaging modalities is a crucial task as it can be utilized for computer-aided diagnosis, computer-assisted surgery, and therapy planning. Thanks to the recent advances in deep learning, several deep neural networks for medical image segmentation have been introduced successfully for this purpose. In this paper, we focus on learning a deep multi-organ segmentation network that labels voxels. In particular, we examine the critical choice of a loss function in order to handle the notorious imbalance problem that plagues both the input and output of a learning model. The input imbalance refers to the class-imbalance in the input training samples (i.e., small foreground objects embedded in an abundance of background voxels, as well as organs of varying sizes). The output imbalance refers to the imbalance between the false positives and false negatives of the inference model. In order to tackle both types of imbalance during training and inference, we introduce a new curriculum learning based loss function. Specifically, we leverage Dice similarity coefficient to deter model parameters from being held at bad local minima and at the same time gradually learn better model parameters by penalizing for false positives/negatives using a cross entropy term. We evaluated the proposed loss function on three datasets: whole body positron emission tomography (PET) scans with 5 target organs, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prostate scans, and ultrasound echocardigraphy images with a single target organ i.e., left ventricular. We show that a simple network architecture with the proposed integrative
Detection faults in seismic data is a crucial step for seismic structural interpretation, reservoir characterization and well placement. Some recent works regard it as an image segmentation task. The task of image segmentation requires huge labels, especially 3D seismic data, which has a complex structure and lots of noise. Therefore, its annotation requires expert experience and a huge workload. In this study, we present lambda-BCE and lambda-smooth L1loss to effectively train 3D-CNN by some slices from 3D seismic data, so that the model can learn the segmentation of 3D seismic data from a few 2D slices. In order to fully extract information from limited data and suppress seismic noise, we propose an attention module that can be used for active supervision training and embedded in the network. The attention heatmap label is generated by the original label, and letting it supervise the attention module using the lambda-smooth L1loss. The experiment demonstrates the effectiveness of our loss function, the method can extract 3D seismic features from a few 2D slice labels. And it also shows the advanced performance of the attention module, which can significantly suppress the noise in the seismic data while increasing the model's sensitivity to the foreground. Finally, on the public test set, we only use the 2D slice labels training that accounts for 3.3% of the 3D volume label, and achieve similar performance to the 3D volume label training.
Image segmentation is often ambiguous at the level of individual image patches and requires contextual information to reach label consensus. In this paper we introduce Segmenter, a transformer model for semantic segmentation. In contrast to convolution-based methods, our approach allows to model global context already at the first layer and throughout the network. We build on the recent Vision Transformer (ViT) and extend it to semantic segmentation. To do so, we rely on the output embeddings corresponding to image patches and obtain class labels from these embeddings with a point-wise linear decoder or a mask transformer decoder. We leverage models pre-trained for image classification and show that we can fine-tune them on moderate sized datasets available for semantic segmentation. The linear decoder allows to obtain excellent results already, but the performance can be further improved by a mask transformer generating class masks. We conduct an extensive ablation study to show the impact of the different parameters, in particular the performance is better for large models and small patch sizes. Segmenter attains excellent results for semantic segmentation. It outperforms the state of the art on both ADE20K and Pascal Context datasets and is competitive on Cityscapes.
This paper studies the context aggregation problem in semantic image segmentation. The existing researches focus on improving the pixel representations by aggregating the contextual information within individual images. Though impressive, these methods neglect the significance of the representations of the pixels of the corresponding class beyond the input image. To address this, this paper proposes to mine the contextual information beyond individual images to further augment the pixel representations. We first set up a feature memory module, which is updated dynamically during training, to store the dataset-level representations of various categories. Then, we learn class probability distribution of each pixel representation under the supervision of the ground-truth segmentation. At last, the representation of each pixel is augmented by aggregating the dataset-level representations based on the corresponding class probability distribution. Furthermore, by utilizing the stored dataset-level representations, we also propose a representation consistent learning strategy to make the classification head better address intra-class compactness and inter-class dispersion. The proposed method could be effortlessly incorporated into existing segmentation frameworks (e.g., FCN, PSPNet, OCRNet and DeepLabV3) and brings consistent performance improvements. Mining contextual information beyond image allows us to report state-of-the-art performance on various benchmarks: ADE20K, LIP, Cityscapes and COCO-Stuff.
We investigate Referring Image Segmentation (RIS), which outputs a segmentation map corresponding to the given natural language description. To solve RIS efficiently, we need to understand each word's relationship with other words, each region in the image to other regions, and cross-modal alignment between linguistic and visual domains. We argue that one of the limiting factors in the recent methods is that they do not handle these interactions simultaneously. To this end, we propose a novel architecture called JRNet, which uses a Joint Reasoning Module(JRM) to concurrently capture the inter-modal and intra-modal interactions. The output of JRM is passed through a novel Cross-Modal Multi-Level Fusion (CMMLF) module which further refines the segmentation masks by exchanging contextual information across visual hierarchy through linguistic features acting as a bridge. We present thorough ablation studies and validate our approach's performance on four benchmark datasets, showing considerable performance gains over the existing state-of-the-art methods.
In this work, we address the challenging task of few-shot segmentation. Previous few-shot segmentation methods mainly employ the information of support images as guidance for query image segmentation. Although some works propose to build cross-reference between support and query images, their extraction of query information still depends on the support images. We here propose to extract the information from the query itself independently to benefit the few-shot segmentation task. To this end, we first propose a prior extractor to learn the query information from the unlabeled images with our proposed global-local contrastive learning. Then, we extract a set of predetermined priors via this prior extractor. With the obtained priors, we generate the prior region maps for query images, which locate the objects, as guidance to perform cross interaction with support features. In such a way, the extraction of query information is detached from the support branch, overcoming the limitation by support, and could obtain more informative query clues to achieve better interaction. Without bells and whistles, the proposed approach achieves new state-of-the-art performance for the few-shot segmentation task on PASCAL-5$^{i}$ and COCO datasets.
Semantic segmentation of medical images is an essential first step in computer-aided diagnosis systems for many applications. However, given many disparate imaging modalities and inherent variations in the patient data, it is difficult to consistently achieve high accuracy using modern deep neural networks (DNNs). This has led researchers to propose interactive image segmentation techniques where a medical expert can interactively correct the output of a DNN to the desired accuracy. However, these techniques often need separate training data with the associated human interactions, and do not generalize to various diseases, and types of medical images. In this paper, we suggest a novel conditional inference technique for DNNs which takes the intervention by a medical expert as test time constraints and performs inference conditioned upon these constraints. Our technique is generic can be used for medical images from any modality. Unlike other methods, our approach can correct multiple structures simultaneously and add structures missed at initial segmentation. We report an improvement of 13.3, 12.5, 17.8, 10.2, and 12.4 times in user annotation time than full human annotation for the nucleus, multiple cells, liver and tumor, organ, and brain segmentation respectively. We report a time saving of 2.8, 3.0, 1.9, 4.4, and 8.6 fold compared to other interactive segmentation techniques. Our method can be useful to clinicians for diagnosis and post-surgical follow-up with minimal intervention from the medical expert. The source-code and the detailed results are available here [1].
While improving prediction accuracy has been the focus of machine learning in recent years, this alone does not suffice for reliable decision-making. Deploying learning systems in consequential settings also requires calibrating and communicating the uncertainty of predictions. To convey instance-wise uncertainty for prediction tasks, we show how to generate set-valued predictions from a black-box predictor that control the expected loss on future test points at a user-specified level. Our approach provides explicit finite-sample guarantees for any dataset by using a holdout set to calibrate the size of the prediction sets. This framework enables simple, distribution-free, rigorous error control for many tasks, and we demonstrate it in five large-scale machine learning problems: (1) classification problems where some mistakes are more costly than others; (2) multi-label classification, where each observation has multiple associated labels; (3) classification problems where the labels have a hierarchical structure; (4) image segmentation, where we wish to predict a set of pixels containing an object of interest; and (5) protein structure prediction. Lastly, we discuss extensions to uncertainty quantification for ranking, metric learning and distributionally robust learning.
Deep learning has not been routinely employed for semantic segmentation of seabed environment for synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery due to the implicit need of abundant training data such methods necessitate. Abundant training data, specifically pixel-level labels for all images, is usually not available for SAS imagery due to the complex logistics (e.g., diver survey, chase boat, precision position information) needed for obtaining accurate ground-truth. Many hand-crafted feature based algorithms have been proposed to segment SAS in an unsupervised fashion. However, there is still room for improvement as the feature extraction step of these methods is fixed. In this work, we present a new iterative unsupervised algorithm for learning deep features for SAS image segmentation. Our proposed algorithm alternates between clustering superpixels and updating the parameters of a convolutional neural network (CNN) so that the feature extraction for image segmentation can be optimized. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method on a realistic benchmark dataset. Our results show that the performance of our proposed method is considerably better than current state-of-the-art methods in SAS image segmentation.
We introduce a method that allows to automatically segment images into semantically meaningful regions without human supervision. Derived regions are consistent across different images and coincide with human-defined semantic classes on some datasets. In cases where semantic regions might be hard for human to define and consistently label, our method is still able to find meaningful and consistent semantic classes. In our work, we use pretrained StyleGAN2~\cite{karras2020analyzing} generative model: clustering in the feature space of the generative model allows to discover semantic classes. Once classes are discovered, a synthetic dataset with generated images and corresponding segmentation masks can be created. After that a segmentation model is trained on the synthetic dataset and is able to generalize to real images. Additionally, by using CLIP~\cite{radford2021learning} we are able to use prompts defined in a natural language to discover some desired semantic classes. We test our method on publicly available datasets and show state-of-the-art results.
The balance between high accuracy and high speed has always been a challenging task in semantic image segmentation. Compact segmentation networks are more widely used in the case of limited resources, while their performances are constrained. In this paper, motivated by the residual learning and global aggregation, we propose a simple yet general and effective knowledge distillation framework called double similarity distillation (DSD) to improve the classification accuracy of all existing compact networks by capturing the similarity knowledge in pixel and category dimensions, respectively. Specifically, we propose a pixel-wise similarity distillation (PSD) module that utilizes residual attention maps to capture more detailed spatial dependencies across multiple layers. Compared with exiting methods, the PSD module greatly reduces the amount of calculation and is easy to expand. Furthermore, considering the differences in characteristics between semantic segmentation task and other computer vision tasks, we propose a category-wise similarity distillation (CSD) module, which can help the compact segmentation network strengthen the global category correlation by constructing the correlation matrix. Combining these two modules, DSD framework has no extra parameters and only a minimal increase in FLOPs. Extensive experiments on four challenging datasets, including Cityscapes, CamVid, ADE20K, and Pascal VOC 2012, show that DSD outperforms current state-of-the-art methods, proving its effectiveness and generality. The code and models will be publicly available.
The segmentation of medical images is a fundamental step in automated clinical decision support systems. Existing medical image segmentation methods based on supervised deep learning, however, remain problematic because of their reliance on large amounts of labelled training data. Although medical imaging data repositories continue to expand, there has not been a commensurate increase in the amount of annotated data. Hence, we propose a new spatial guided self-supervised clustering network (SGSCN) for medical image segmentation, where we introduce multiple loss functions designed to aid in grouping image pixels that are spatially connected and have similar feature representations. It iteratively learns feature representations and clustering assignment of each pixel in an end-to-end fashion from a single image. We also propose a context-based consistency loss that better delineates the shape and boundaries of image regions. It enforces all the pixels belonging to a cluster to be spatially close to the cluster centre. We evaluated our method on 2 public medical image datasets and compared it to existing conventional and self-supervised clustering methods. Experimental results show that our method was most accurate for medical image segmentation.
The reliability of Deep Learning systems depends on their accuracy but also on their robustness against adversarial perturbations to the input data. Several attacks and defenses have been proposed to improve the performance of Deep Neural Networks under the presence of adversarial noise in the natural image domain. However, robustness in computer-aided diagnosis for volumetric data has only been explored for specific tasks and with limited attacks. We propose a new framework to assess the robustness of general medical image segmentation systems. Our contributions are two-fold: (i) we propose a new benchmark to evaluate robustness in the context of the Medical Segmentation Decathlon (MSD) by extending the recent AutoAttack natural image classification framework to the domain of volumetric data segmentation, and (ii) we present a novel lattice architecture for RObust Generic medical image segmentation (ROG). Our results show that ROG is capable of generalizing across different tasks of the MSD and largely surpasses the state-of-the-art under sophisticated adversarial attacks.
Semi-supervised learning has attracted great attention in the field of machine learning, especially for medical image segmentation tasks, since it alleviates the heavy burden of collecting abundant densely annotated data for training. However, most of existing methods underestimate the importance of challenging regions (e.g. small branches or blurred edges) during training. We believe that these unlabeled regions may contain more crucial information to minimize the uncertainty prediction for the model and should be emphasized in the training process. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a novel Mutual Consistency Network (MC-Net) for semi-supervised left atrium segmentation from 3D MR images. Particularly, our MC-Net consists of one encoder and two slightly different decoders, and the prediction discrepancies of two decoders are transformed as an unsupervised loss by our designed cycled pseudo label scheme to encourage mutual consistency. Such mutual consistency encourages the two decoders to have consistent and low-entropy predictions and enables the model to gradually capture generalized features from these unlabeled challenging regions. We evaluate our MC-Net on the public Left Atrium (LA) database and it obtains impressive performance gains by exploiting the unlabeled data effectively. Our MC-Net outperforms six recent semi-supervised methods for left atrium segmentation, and sets the new state-of-the-art performance on the LA database.
A strong visual object tracker nowadays relies on its well-crafted modules, which typically consist of manually-designed network architectures to deliver high-quality tracking results. Not surprisingly, the manual design process becomes a particularly challenging barrier, as it demands sufficient prior experience, enormous effort, intuition and perhaps some good luck. Meanwhile, neural architecture search has gaining grounds in practical applications such as image segmentation, as a promising method in tackling the issue of automated search of feasible network structures. In this work, we propose a novel cell-level differentiable architecture search mechanism to automate the network design of the tracking module, aiming to adapt backbone features to the objective of a tracking network during offline training. The proposed approach is simple, efficient, and with no need to stack a series of modules to construct a network. Our approach is easy to be incorporated into existing trackers, which is empirically validated using different differentiable architecture search-based methods and tracking objectives. Extensive experimental evaluations demonstrate the superior performance of our approach over five commonly-used benchmarks. Meanwhile, our automated searching process takes 41 (18) hours for the second (first) order DARTS method on the TrackingNet dataset.
We introduce $\textit{InExtremIS}$, a weakly supervised 3D approach to train a deep image segmentation network using particularly weak train-time annotations: only 6 extreme clicks at the boundary of the objects of interest. Our fully-automatic method is trained end-to-end and does not require any test-time annotations. From the extreme points, 3D bounding boxes are extracted around objects of interest. Then, deep geodesics connecting extreme points are generated to increase the amount of "annotated" voxels within the bounding boxes. Finally, a weakly supervised regularised loss derived from a Conditional Random Field formulation is used to encourage prediction consistency over homogeneous regions. Extensive experiments are performed on a large open dataset for Vestibular Schwannoma segmentation. $\textit{InExtremIS}$ obtained competitive performance, approaching full supervision and outperforming significantly other weakly supervised techniques based on bounding boxes. Moreover, given a fixed annotation time budget, $\textit{InExtremIS}$ outperforms full supervision. Our code and data are available online.
Semantic, instance, and panoptic segmentations have been addressed using different and specialized frameworks despite their underlying connections. This paper presents a unified, simple, and effective framework for these essentially similar tasks. The framework, named K-Net, segments both instances and semantic categories consistently by a group of learnable kernels, where each kernel is responsible for generating a mask for either a potential instance or a stuff class. To remedy the difficulties of distinguishing various instances, we propose a kernel update strategy that enables each kernel dynamic and conditional on its meaningful group in the input image. K-Net can be trained in an end-to-end manner with bipartite matching, and its training and inference are naturally NMS-free and box-free. Without bells and whistles, K-Net surpasses all previous state-of-the-art single-model results of panoptic segmentation on MS COCO and semantic segmentation on ADE20K with 52.1% PQ and 54.3% mIoU, respectively. Its instance segmentation performance is also on par with Cascade Mask R-CNNon MS COCO with 60%-90% faster inference speeds. Code and models will be released at https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection.
Fully convolutional U-shaped neural networks have largely been the dominant approach for pixel-wise image segmentation. In this work, we tackle two defects that hinder their deployment in real-world applications: 1) Predictions lack uncertainty quantification that may be crucial to many decision-making systems; 2) Large memory storage and computational consumption demanding extensive hardware resources. To address these issues and improve their practicality we demonstrate a few-parameter compact Bayesian convolutional architecture, that achieves a marginal improvement in accuracy in comparison to related work using significantly fewer parameters and compute operations. The architecture combines parameter-efficient operations such as separable convolutions, bilinear interpolation, multi-scale feature propagation and Bayesian inference for per-pixel uncertainty quantification through Monte Carlo Dropout. The best performing configurations required fewer than 2.5 million parameters on diverse challenging datasets with few observations.
Semantic segmentation from very fine resolution (VFR) urban scene images plays a significant role in several application scenarios including autonomous driving, land cover classification, and urban planning, etc. However, the tremendous details contained in the VFR image severely limit the potential of the existing deep learning approaches. More seriously, the considerable variations in scale and appearance of objects further deteriorate the representational capacity of those se-mantic segmentation methods, leading to the confusion of adjacent objects. Addressing such is-sues represents a promising research field in the remote sensing community, which paves the way for scene-level landscape pattern analysis and decision making. In this manuscript, we pro-pose a bilateral awareness network (BANet) which contains a dependency path and a texture path to fully capture the long-range relationships and fine-grained details in VFR images. Specif-ically, the dependency path is conducted based on the ResT, a novel Transformer backbone with memory-efficient multi-head self-attention, while the texture path is built on the stacked convo-lution operation. Besides, using the linear attention mechanism, a feature aggregation module (FAM) is designed to effectively fuse the dependency features and texture features. Extensive experiments conducted on the three large-scale urban scene image segmentation datasets, i.e., ISPRS Vaihingen dataset, ISPRS Potsdam dataset, and UAVid dataset, demonstrate the effective-ness of our BANet. Specifically, a 64.6% mIoU is achieved on the UAVid dataset.
Many approaches to 3D image segmentation are based on hierarchical clustering of supervoxels into image regions. Here we describe a distributed algorithm capable of handling a tremendous number of supervoxels. The algorithm works recursively, the regions are divided into chunks that are processed independently in parallel by multiple workers. At each round of the recursive procedure, the chunk size in all dimensions are doubled until a single chunk encompasses the entire image. The final result is provably independent of the chunking scheme, and the same as if the entire image were processed without division into chunks. This is nontrivial because a pair of adjacent regions is scored by some statistical property (e.g. mean or median) of the affinities at the interface, and the interface may extend over arbitrarily many chunks. The trick is to delay merge decisions for regions that touch chunk boundaries, and only complete them in a later round after the regions are fully contained within a chunk. We demonstrate the algorithm by clustering an affinity graph with over 1.5 trillion edges between 135 billion supervoxels derived from a 3D electron microscopic brain image.
Accurate segmentation of medical images into anatomically meaningful regions is critical for the extraction of quantitative indices or biomarkers. The common pipeline for segmentation comprises regions of interest detection stage and segmentation stage, which are independent of each other and typically performed using separate deep learning networks. The performance of the segmentation stage highly relies on the extracted set of spatial features and the receptive fields. In this work, we propose an end-to-end network, called Trilateral Attention Network (TaNet), for real-time detection and segmentation in medical images. TaNet has a module for region localization, and three segmentation pathways: 1) handcrafted pathway with hand-designed convolutional kernels, 2) detail pathway with regular convolutional kernels, and 3) a global pathway to enlarge the receptive field. The first two pathways encode rich handcrafted and low-level features extracted by hand-designed and regular kernels while the global pathway encodes high-level context information. By jointly training the network for localization and segmentation using different sets of features, TaNet achieved superior performance, in terms of accuracy and speed, when evaluated on an echocardiography dataset for cardiac segmentation. The code and models will be made publicly available in TaNet Github page.
This paper reports a CPU-level real-time stereo matching method for surgical images (10 Hz on 640 * 480 image with a single core of i5-9400). The proposed method is built on the fast ''dense inverse searching'' algorithm, which estimates the disparity of the stereo images. The overlapping image patches (arbitrary squared image segment) from the images at different scales are aligned based on the photometric consistency presumption. We propose a Bayesian framework to evaluate the probability of the optimized patch disparity at different scales. Moreover, we introduce a spatial Gaussian mixed probability distribution to address the pixel-wise probability within the patch. In-vivo and synthetic experiments show that our method can handle ambiguities resulted from the textureless surfaces and the photometric inconsistency caused by the Lambertian reflectance. Our Bayesian method correctly balances the probability of the patch for stereo images at different scales. Experiments indicate that the estimated depth has higher accuracy and fewer outliers than the baseline methods in the surgical scenario.
The segmentation of nanoscale electron microscopy (EM) images is crucial but challenging in connectomics. Recent advances in deep learning have demonstrated the significant potential of automatic segmentation for tera-scale EM images. However, none of the existing segmentation methods are error-free, and they require proofreading, which is typically implemented as an interactive, semi-automatic process via manual intervention. Herein, we propose a fully automatic proofreading method based on reinforcement learning. The main idea is to model the human decision process in proofreading using a reinforcement agent to achieve fully automatic proofreading. We systematically design the proposed system by combining multiple reinforcement learning agents in a hierarchical manner, where each agent focuses only on a specific task while preserving dependency between agents. Furthermore, we also demonstrate that the episodic task setting of reinforcement learning can efficiently manage a combination of merge and split errors concurrently presented in the input. We demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed system by comparing it with state-of-the-art proofreading methods using various testing examples.
In applied image segmentation tasks, the ability to provide numerous and precise labels for training is paramount to the accuracy of the model at inference time. However, this overhead is often neglected, and recently proposed segmentation architectures rely heavily on the availability and fidelity of ground truth labels to achieve state-of-the-art accuracies. Failure to acknowledge the difficulty in creating adequate ground truths can lead to an over-reliance on pre-trained models or a lack of adoption in real-world applications. We introduce Points2Polygons (P2P), a model which makes use of contextual metric learning techniques that directly addresses this problem. Points2Polygons performs well against existing fully-supervised segmentation baselines with limited training data, despite using lightweight segmentation models (U-Net with a ResNet18 backbone) and having access to only weak labels in the form of object centroids and no pre-training. We demonstrate this on several different small but non-trivial datasets. We show that metric learning using contextual data provides key insights for self-supervised tasks in general, and allow segmentation models to easily generalize across traditionally label-intensive domains in computer vision.
Performing inference in graphs is a common task within several machine learning problems, e.g., image segmentation, community detection, among others. For a given undirected connected graph, we tackle the statistical problem of exactly recovering an unknown ground-truth binary labeling of the nodes from a single corrupted observation of each edge. Such problem can be formulated as a quadratic combinatorial optimization problem over the boolean hypercube, where it has been shown before that one can (with high probability and in polynomial time) exactly recover the ground-truth labeling of graphs that have an isoperimetric number that grows with respect to the number of nodes (e.g., complete graphs, regular expanders). In this work, we apply a powerful hierarchy of relaxations, known as the sum-of-squares (SoS) hierarchy, to the combinatorial problem. Motivated by empirical evidence on the improvement in exact recoverability, we center our attention on the degree-4 SoS relaxation and set out to understand the origin of such improvement from a graph theoretical perspective. We show that the solution of the dual of the relaxed problem is related to finding edge weights of the Johnson and Kneser graphs, where the weights fulfill the SoS constraints and intuitively allow the input graph to increase its algebraic connectivity. Finally, as byproduct of our analysis, we derive a novel Cheeger-type lower bound for the algebraic connectivity of graphs with signed edge weights.
As the most economical and routine auxiliary examination in the diagnosis of root canal treatment, oral X-ray has been widely used by stomatologists. It is still challenging to segment the tooth root with a blurry boundary for the traditional image segmentation method. To this end, we propose a model for high-resolution segmentation based on polynomial curve fitting with landmark detection (HS-PCL). It is based on detecting multiple landmarks evenly distributed on the edge of the tooth root to fit a smooth polynomial curve as the segmentation of the tooth root, thereby solving the problem of fuzzy edge. In our model, a maximum number of the shortest distances algorithm (MNSDA) is proposed to automatically reduce the negative influence of the wrong landmarks which are detected incorrectly and deviate from the tooth root on the fitting result. Our numerical experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach not only reduces Hausdorff95 (HD95) by 33.9% and Average Surface Distance (ASD) by 42.1% compared with the state-of-the-art method, but it also achieves excellent results on the minute quantity of datasets, which greatly improves the feasibility of automatic root canal therapy evaluation by medical image computing.
Active contours Model (ACM) has been extensively used in computer vision and image processing. In recent studies, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been combined with active contours replacing the user in the process of contour evolution and image segmentation to eliminate limitations associated with ACM's dependence on parameters of the energy functional and initialization. However, prior works did not aim for automatic initialization which is addressed here. In addition to manual initialization, current methods are highly sensitive to initial location and fail to delineate borders accurately. We propose a fully automatic image segmentation method to address problems of manual initialization, insufficient capture range, and poor convergence to boundaries, in addition to the problem of assignment of energy functional parameters. We train two CNNs, which predict active contour weighting parameters and generate a ground truth mask to extract Distance Transform (DT) and an initialization circle. Distance transform is used to form a vector field pointing from each pixel of the image towards the closest point on the boundary, the size of which is equal to the Euclidean distance map. We evaluate our method on four publicly available datasets including two building instance segmentation datasets, Vaihingen and Bing huts, and two mammography image datasets, INBreast and DDSM-BCRP. Our approach outperforms latest research by 0.59 ans 2.39 percent in mean Intersection-over-Union (mIoU), 7.38 and 8.62 percent in Boundary F-score (BoundF) for Vaihingen and Bing huts datasets, respectively. Dice similarity coefficient for the INBreast and DDSM-BCRP datasets is 94.23% and 90.89%, respectively indicating our
Given a natural language expression and an image/video, the goal of referring segmentation is to produce the pixel-level masks of the entities described by the subject of the expression. Previous approaches tackle this problem by implicit feature interaction and fusion between visual and linguistic modalities in a one-stage manner. However, human tends to solve the referring problem in a progressive manner based on informative words in the expression, i.e., first roughly locating candidate entities and then distinguishing the target one. In this paper, we propose a Cross-Modal Progressive Comprehension (CMPC) scheme to effectively mimic human behaviors and implement it as a CMPC-I (Image) module and a CMPC-V (Video) module to improve referring image and video segmentation models. For image data, our CMPC-I module first employs entity and attribute words to perceive all the related entities that might be considered by the expression. Then, the relational words are adopted to highlight the target entity as well as suppress other irrelevant ones by spatial graph reasoning. For video data, our CMPC-V module further exploits action words based on CMPC-I to highlight the correct entity matched with the action cues by temporal graph reasoning. In addition to the CMPC, we also introduce a simple yet effective Text-Guided Feature Exchange (TGFE) module to integrate the reasoned multimodal features corresponding to different levels in the visual backbone under the guidance of textual information. In this way, multi-level features can communicate with each other and be mutually refined based on the textual context. Combining CMPC-I or
Food image segmentation is a critical and indispensible task for developing health-related applications such as estimating food calories and nutrients. Existing food image segmentation models are underperforming due to two reasons: (1) there is a lack of high quality food image datasets with fine-grained ingredient labels and pixel-wise location masks -- the existing datasets either carry coarse ingredient labels or are small in size; and (2) the complex appearance of food makes it difficult to localize and recognize ingredients in food images, e.g., the ingredients may overlap one another in the same image, and the identical ingredient may appear distinctly in different food images. In this work, we build a new food image dataset FoodSeg103 (and its extension FoodSeg154) containing 9,490 images. We annotate these images with 154 ingredient classes and each image has an average of 6 ingredient labels and pixel-wise masks. In addition, we propose a multi-modality pre-training approach called ReLeM that explicitly equips a segmentation model with rich and semantic food knowledge. In experiments, we use three popular semantic segmentation methods (i.e., Dilated Convolution based, Feature Pyramid based, and Vision Transformer based) as baselines, and evaluate them as well as ReLeM on our new datasets. We believe that the FoodSeg103 (and its extension FoodSeg154) and the pre-trained models using ReLeM can serve as a benchmark to facilitate future works on fine-grained food image understanding. We make all these datasets and methods public at \url{https://xiongweiwu.github.io/foodseg103.html}.
Incorporating shape information is essential for the delineation of many organs and anatomical structures in medical images. While previous work has mainly focused on parametric spatial transformations applied on reference template shapes, in this paper, we address the Bayesian inference of parametric shape models for segmenting medical images with the objective to provide interpretable results. The proposed framework defines a likelihood appearance probability and a prior label probability based on a generic shape function through a logistic function. A reference length parameter defined in the sigmoid controls the trade-off between shape and appearance information. The inference of shape parameters is performed within an Expectation-Maximisation approach where a Gauss-Newton optimization stage allows to provide an approximation of the posterior probability of shape parameters. This framework is applied to the segmentation of cochlea structures from clinical CT images constrained by a 10 parameter shape model. It is evaluated on three different datasets, one of which includes more than 200 patient images. The results show performances comparable to supervised methods and better than previously proposed unsupervised ones. It also enables an analysis of parameter distributions and the quantification of segmentation uncertainty including the effect of the shape model.
The Voronoi diagram-based dual-front active contour models are known as a powerful and efficient way for addressing the image segmentation and domain partitioning problems. In the basic formulation of the dual-front models, the evolving contours can be considered as the interfaces of adjacent Voronoi regions. Among these dual-front models, a crucial ingredient is regarded as the geodesic metrics by which the geodesic distances and the corresponding Voronoi diagram can be estimated. In this paper, we introduce a type of asymmetric quadratic metrics dual-front model. The metrics considered are built by the integration of the image features and a vector field derived from the evolving contours. The use of the asymmetry enhancement can reduce the risk of contour shortcut or leakage problems especially when the initial contours are far away from the target boundaries or the images have complicated intensity distributions. Moreover, the proposed dual-front model can be applied for image segmentation in conjunction with various region-based homogeneity terms. The numerical experiments on both synthetic and real images show that the proposed dual-front model indeed achieves encouraging results.
BiSeNet has been proved to be a popular two-stream network for real-time segmentation. However, its principle of adding an extra path to encode spatial information is time-consuming, and the backbones borrowed from pretrained tasks, e.g., image classification, may be inefficient for image segmentation due to the deficiency of task-specific design. To handle these problems, we propose a novel and efficient structure named Short-Term Dense Concatenate network (STDC network) by removing structure redundancy. Specifically, we gradually reduce the dimension of feature maps and use the aggregation of them for image representation, which forms the basic module of STDC network. In the decoder, we propose a Detail Aggregation module by integrating the learning of spatial information into low-level layers in single-stream manner. Finally, the low-level features and deep features are fused to predict the final segmentation results. Extensive experiments on Cityscapes and CamVid dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by achieving promising trade-off between segmentation accuracy and inference speed. On Cityscapes, we achieve 71.9% mIoU on the test set with a speed of 250.4 FPS on NVIDIA GTX 1080Ti, which is 45.2% faster than the latest methods, and achieve 76.8% mIoU with 97.0 FPS while inferring on higher resolution images.
Advances in object-centric generative models (OCGMs) have culminated in the development of a broad range of methods for unsupervised object segmentation and interpretable object-centric scene generation. These methods, however, are limited to simulated and real-world datasets with limited visual complexity. Moreover, object representations are often inferred using RNNs which do not scale well to large images or iterative refinement which avoids imposing an unnatural ordering on objects in an image but requires the a priori initialisation of a fixed number of object representations. In contrast to established paradigms, this work proposes an embedding-based approach in which embeddings of pixels are clustered in a differentiable fashion using a stochastic, non-parametric stick-breaking process. Similar to iterative refinement, this clustering procedure also leads to randomly ordered object representations, but without the need of initialising a fixed number of clusters a priori. This is used to develop a new model, GENESIS-V2, which can infer a variable number of object representations without using RNNs or iterative refinement. We show that GENESIS-V2 outperforms previous methods for unsupervised image segmentation and object-centric scene generation on established synthetic datasets as well as more complex real-world datasets.
Training deep networks with limited labeled data while achieving a strong generalization ability is key in the quest to reduce human annotation efforts. This is the goal of semi-supervised learning, which exploits more widely available unlabeled data to complement small labeled data sets. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for discriminative pixel-level tasks using a generative model of both images and labels. Concretely, we learn a generative adversarial network that captures the joint image-label distribution and is trained efficiently using a large set of unlabeled images supplemented with only few labeled ones. We build our architecture on top of StyleGAN2, augmented with a label synthesis branch. Image labeling at test time is achieved by first embedding the target image into the joint latent space via an encoder network and test-time optimization, and then generating the label from the inferred embedding. We evaluate our approach in two important domains: medical image segmentation and part-based face segmentation. We demonstrate strong in-domain performance compared to several baselines, and are the first to showcase extreme out-of-domain generalization, such as transferring from CT to MRI in medical imaging, and photographs of real faces to paintings, sculptures, and even cartoons and animal faces. Project Page: \url{https://nv-tlabs.github.io/semanticGAN/}
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the first cause of death in many countries. CRC originates from a small clump of cells on the lining of the colon called polyps, which over time might grow and become malignant. Early detection and removal of polyps are therefore necessary for the prevention of colon cancer. In this paper, we introduce an ensemble of medical polyp segmentation algorithms. Based on an observation that different segmentation algorithms will perform well on different subsets of examples because of the nature and size of training sets they have been exposed to and because of method-intrinsic factors, we propose to measure the confidence in the prediction of each algorithm and then use an associate threshold to determine whether the confidence is acceptable or not. An algorithm is selected for the ensemble if the confidence is below its associate threshold. The optimal threshold for each segmentation algorithm is found by using Comprehensive Learning Particle Swarm Optimization (CLPSO), a swarm intelligence algorithm. The Dice coefficient, a popular performance metric for image segmentation, is used as the fitness criteria. Experimental results on two polyp segmentation datasets MICCAI2015 and Kvasir-SEG confirm that our ensemble achieves better results compared to some well-known segmentation algorithms.
Computer vision has shown promising results in medical image processing. Pneumothorax is a deadly condition and if not diagnosed and treated at time then it causes death. It can be diagnosed with chest X-ray images. We need an expert and experienced radiologist to predict whether a person is suffering from pneumothorax or not by looking at the chest X-ray images. Everyone does not have access to such a facility. Moreover, in some cases, we need quick diagnoses. So we propose an image segmentation model to predict and give the output a mask that will assist the doctor in taking this crucial decision. Deep Learning has proved their worth in many areas and outperformed man state-of-the-art models. We want to use the power of these deep learning model to solve this problem. We have used U-net [13] architecture with ResNet [17] as a backbone and achieved promising results. U-net [13] performs very well in medical image processing and semantic segmentation. Our problem falls in the semantic segmentation category.
With the increase in available large clinical and experimental datasets, there has been substantial amount of work being done on addressing the challenges in the area of biomedical image analysis. Image segmentation, which is crucial for any quantitative analysis, has especially attracted attention. Recent hardware advancement has led to the success of deep learning approaches. However, although deep learning models are being trained on large datasets, existing methods do not use the information from different learning epochs effectively. In this work, we leverage the information of each training epoch to prune the prediction maps of the subsequent epochs. We propose a novel architecture called feedback attention network (FANet) that unifies the previous epoch mask with the feature map of the current training epoch. The previous epoch mask is then used to provide a hard attention to the learnt feature maps at different convolutional layers. The network also allows to rectify the predictions in an iterative fashion during the test time. We show that our proposed feedback attention model provides a substantial improvement on most segmentation metrics tested on seven publicly available biomedical imaging datasets demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed FANet.
Few-shot segmentation has been attracting a lot of attention due to its effectiveness to segment unseen object classes with a few annotated samples. Most existing approaches use masked Global Average Pooling (GAP) to encode an annotated support image to a feature vector to facilitate query image segmentation. However, this pipeline unavoidably loses some discriminative information due to the average operation. In this paper, we propose a simple but effective self-guided learning approach, where the lost critical information is mined. Specifically, through making an initial prediction for the annotated support image, the covered and uncovered foreground regions are encoded to the primary and auxiliary support vectors using masked GAP, respectively. By aggregating both primary and auxiliary support vectors, better segmentation performances are obtained on query images. Enlightened by our self-guided module for 1-shot segmentation, we propose a cross-guided module for multiple shot segmentation, where the final mask is fused using predictions from multiple annotated samples with high-quality support vectors contributing more and vice versa. This module improves the final prediction in the inference stage without re-training. Extensive experiments show that our approach achieves new state-of-the-art performances on both PASCAL-5i and COCO-20i datasets.
Large, fine-grained image segmentation datasets, annotated at pixel-level, are difficult to obtain, particularly in medical imaging, where annotations also require expert knowledge. Weakly-supervised learning can train models by relying on weaker forms of annotation, such as scribbles. Here, we learn to segment using scribble annotations in an adversarial game. With unpaired segmentation masks, we train a multi-scale GAN to generate realistic segmentation masks at multiple resolutions, while we use scribbles to learn their correct position in the image. Central to the model's success is a novel attention gating mechanism, which we condition with adversarial signals to act as a shape prior, resulting in better object localization at multiple scales. Subject to adversarial conditioning, the segmentor learns attention maps that are semantic, suppress the noisy activations outside the objects, and reduce the vanishing gradient problem in the deeper layers of the segmentor. We evaluated our model on several medical (ACDC, LVSC, CHAOS) and non-medical (PPSS) datasets, and we report performance levels matching those achieved by models trained with fully annotated segmentation masks. We also demonstrate extensions in a variety of settings: semi-supervised learning; combining multiple scribble sources (a crowdsourcing scenario) and multi-task learning (combining scribble and mask supervision). We release expert-made scribble annotations for the ACDC dataset, and the code used for the experiments, at https://vios-s.github.io/multiscale-adversarial-attention-gates
Fluorescence microscopy images play the critical role of capturing spatial or spatiotemporal information of biomedical processes in life sciences. Their simple structures and semantics provide unique advantages in elucidating learning behavior of deep neural networks (DNNs). It is generally assumed that accurate image annotation is required to train DNNs for accurate image segmentation. In this study, however, we find that DNNs trained by label images in which nearly half (49%) of the binary pixel labels are randomly flipped provide largely the same segmentation performance. This suggests that DNNs learn high-level structures rather than pixel-level labels per se to segment fluorescence microscopy images. We refer to these structures as meta-structures. In support of the existence of the meta-structures, when DNNs are trained by a series of label images with progressively less meta-structure information, we find progressive degradation in their segmentation performance. Motivated by the learning behavior of DNNs trained by random labels and the characteristics of meta-structures, we propose an unsupervised segmentation model. Experiments show that it achieves remarkably competitive performance in comparison to supervised segmentation models.
Medical image segmentation is a relevant task as it serves as the first step for several diagnosis processes, thus it is indispensable in clinical usage. Whilst major success has been reported using supervised techniques, they assume a large and well-representative labelled set. This is a strong assumption in the medical domain where annotations are expensive, time-consuming, and inherent to human bias. To address this problem, unsupervised techniques have been proposed in the literature yet it is still an open problem due to the difficulty of learning any transformation pattern. In this work, we present a novel optimisation model framed into a new CNN-based contrastive registration architecture for unsupervised medical image segmentation. The core of our approach is to exploit image-level registration and feature-level from a contrastive learning mechanism, to perform registration-based segmentation. Firstly, we propose an architecture to capture the image-to-image transformation pattern via registration for unsupervised medical image segmentation. Secondly, we embed a contrastive learning mechanism into the registration architecture to enhance the discriminating capacity of the network in the feature-level. We show that our proposed technique mitigates the major drawbacks of existing unsupervised techniques. We demonstrate, through numerical and visual experiments, that our technique substantially outperforms the current state-of-the-art unsupervised segmentation methods on two major medical image datasets.
We aim to estimate food portion size, a property that is strongly related to the presence of food object in 3D space, from single monocular images under real life setting. Specifically, we are interested in end-to-end estimation of food portion size, which has great potential in the field of personal health management. Unlike image segmentation or object recognition where annotation can be obtained through large scale crowd sourcing, it is much more challenging to collect datasets for portion size estimation since human cannot accurately estimate the size of an object in an arbitrary 2D image without expert knowledge. To address such challenge, we introduce a real life food image dataset collected from a nutrition study where the groundtruth food energy (calorie) is provided by registered dietitians, and will be made available to the research community. We propose a deep regression process for portion size estimation by combining features estimated from both RGB and learned energy distribution domains. Our estimates of food energy achieved state-of-the-art with a MAPE of 11.47%, significantly outperforms non-expert human estimates by 27.56%.
Federated learning allows distributed medical institutions to collaboratively learn a shared prediction model with privacy protection. While at clinical deployment, the models trained in federated learning can still suffer from performance drop when applied to completely unseen hospitals outside the federation. In this paper, we point out and solve a novel problem setting of federated domain generalization (FedDG), which aims to learn a federated model from multiple distributed source domains such that it can directly generalize to unseen target domains. We present a novel approach, named as Episodic Learning in Continuous Frequency Space (ELCFS), for this problem by enabling each client to exploit multi-source data distributions under the challenging constraint of data decentralization. Our approach transmits the distribution information across clients in a privacy-protecting way through an effective continuous frequency space interpolation mechanism. With the transferred multi-source distributions, we further carefully design a boundary-oriented episodic learning paradigm to expose the local learning to domain distribution shifts and particularly meet the challenges of model generalization in medical image segmentation scenario. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated with superior performance over state-of-the-arts and in-depth ablation experiments on two medical image segmentation tasks. The code is available at "https://github.com/liuquande/FedDG-ELCFS".
Deep learning-based semi-supervised learning (SSL) algorithms have led to promising results in medical images segmentation and can alleviate doctors' expensive annotations by leveraging unlabeled data. However, most of the existing SSL algorithms in literature tend to regularize the model training by perturbing networks and/or data. Observing that multi/dual-task learning attends to various levels of information which have inherent prediction perturbation, we ask the question in this work: can we explicitly build task-level regularization rather than implicitly constructing networks- and/or data-level perturbation-and-transformation for SSL? To answer this question, we propose a novel dual-task-consistency semi-supervised framework for the first time. Concretely, we use a dual-task deep network that jointly predicts a pixel-wise segmentation map and a geometry-aware level set representation of the target. The level set representation is converted to an approximated segmentation map through a differentiable task transform layer. Simultaneously, we introduce a dual-task consistency regularization between the level set-derived segmentation maps and directly predicted segmentation maps for both labeled and unlabeled data. Extensive experiments on two public datasets show that our method can largely improve the performance by incorporating the unlabeled data. Meanwhile, our framework outperforms the state-of-the-art semi-supervised medical image segmentation methods. Code is available at: https://github.com/Luoxd1996/DTC
With the widespread success of deep learning in biomedical image segmentation, domain shift becomes a critical and challenging problem, as the gap between two domains can severely affect model performance when deployed to unseen data with heterogeneous features. To alleviate this problem, we present a novel unsupervised domain adaptation network, for generalizing models learned from the labeled source domain to the unlabeled target domain for cross-modality biomedical image segmentation. Specifically, our approach consists of two key modules, a conditional domain discriminator~(CDD) and a category-centric prototype aligner~(CCPA). The CDD, extended from conditional domain adversarial networks in classifier tasks, is effective and robust in handling complex cross-modality biomedical images. The CCPA, improved from the graph-induced prototype alignment mechanism in cross-domain object detection, can exploit precise instance-level features through an elaborate prototype representation. In addition, it can address the negative effect of class imbalance via entropy-based loss. Extensive experiments on a public benchmark for the cardiac substructure segmentation task demonstrate that our method significantly improves performance on the target domain.
Despite the remarkable performance of deep learning methods on various tasks, most cutting-edge models rely heavily on large-scale annotated training examples, which are often unavailable for clinical and health care tasks. The labeling costs for medical images are very high, especially in medical image segmentation, which typically requires intensive pixel/voxel-wise labeling. Therefore, the strong capability of learning and generalizing from limited supervision, including a limited amount of annotations, sparse annotations, and inaccurate annotations, is crucial for the successful application of deep learning models in medical image segmentation. However, due to its intrinsic difficulty, segmentation with limited supervision is challenging and specific model design and/or learning strategies are needed. In this paper, we provide a systematic and up-to-date review of the solutions above, with summaries and comments about the methodologies. We also highlight several problems in this field, discussed future directions observing further investigations.
Environmental Microorganism Data Set Fifth Version (EMDS-5) is a microscopic image dataset including original Environmental Microorganism (EM) images and two sets of Ground Truth (GT) images. The GT image sets include a single-object GT image set and a multi-object GT image set. The EMDS-5 dataset has 21 types of EMs, each of which contains 20 original EM images, 20 single-object GT images and 20 multi-object GT images. EMDS-5 can realize to evaluate image preprocessing, image segmentation, feature extraction, image classification and image retrieval functions. In order to prove the effectiveness of EMDS-5, for each function, we select the most representative algorithms and price indicators for testing and evaluation. The image preprocessing functions contain two parts: image denoising and image edge detection. Image denoising uses nine kinds of filters to denoise 13 kinds of noises, respectively. In the aspect of edge detection, six edge detection operators are used to detect the edges of the images, and two evaluation indicators, peak-signal to noise ratio and mean structural similarity, are used for evaluation. Image segmentation includes single-object image segmentation and multi-object image segmentation. Six methods are used for single-object image segmentation, while k-means and U-net are used for multi-object segmentation.We extract nine features from the images in EMDS-5 and use the Support Vector Machine classifier for testing. In terms of image classification, we select the VGG16 feature to test different classifiers. We test two types of retrieval approaches: texture feature retrieval and deep learning feature retrieval. We select the last layer of features
Advances in image-based dietary assessment methods have allowed nutrition professionals and researchers to improve the accuracy of dietary assessment, where images of food consumed are captured using smartphones or wearable devices. These images are then analyzed using computer vision methods to estimate energy and nutrition content of the foods. Food image segmentation, which determines the regions in an image where foods are located, plays an important role in this process. Current methods are data dependent, thus cannot generalize well for different food types. To address this problem, we propose a class-agnostic food image segmentation method. Our method uses a pair of eating scene images, one before start eating and one after eating is completed. Using information from both the before and after eating images, we can segment food images by finding the salient missing objects without any prior information about the food class. We model a paradigm of top down saliency which guides the attention of the human visual system (HVS) based on a task to find the salient missing objects in a pair of images. Our method is validated on food images collected from a dietary study which showed promising results.
Supervised deep learning performance is heavily tied to the availability of high-quality labels for training. Neural networks can gradually overfit corrupted labels if directly trained on noisy datasets, leading to severe performance degradation at test time. In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning framework, namely Co-Seg, to collaboratively train segmentation networks on datasets which include low-quality noisy labels. Our approach first trains two networks simultaneously to sift through all samples and obtain a subset with reliable labels. Then, an efficient yet easily-implemented label correction strategy is applied to enrich the reliable subset. Finally, using the updated dataset, we retrain the segmentation network to finalize its parameters. Experiments in two noisy labels scenarios demonstrate that our proposed model can achieve results comparable to those obtained from supervised learning trained on the noise-free labels. In addition, our framework can be easily implemented in any segmentation algorithm to increase its robustness to noisy labels.
Conventional transfer learning leverages weights of pre-trained networks, but mandates the need for similar neural architectures. Alternatively, knowledge distillation can transfer knowledge between heterogeneous networks but often requires access to the original training data or additional generative networks. Knowledge transfer between networks can be improved by being agnostic to the choice of network architecture and reducing the dependence on original training data. We propose a knowledge transfer approach from a teacher to a student network wherein we train the student on an independent transferal dataset, whose annotations are generated by the teacher. Experiments were conducted on five state-of-the-art networks for semantic segmentation and seven datasets across three imaging modalities. We studied knowledge transfer from a single teacher, combination of knowledge transfer and fine-tuning, and knowledge transfer from multiple teachers. The student model with a single teacher achieved similar performance as the teacher; and the student model with multiple teachers achieved better performance than the teachers. The salient features of our algorithm include: 1)no need for original training data or generative networks, 2) knowledge transfer between different architectures, 3) ease of implementation for downstream tasks by using the downstream task dataset as the transferal dataset, 4) knowledge transfer of an ensemble of models, trained independently, into one student model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is effective for knowledge transfer and easily tunable.
Image segmentation aims at identifying regions of interest within an image, by grouping pixels according to their properties. This task resembles the statistical one of clustering, yet many standard clustering methods fail to meet the basic requirements of image segmentation: segment shapes are often biased toward predetermined shapes and their number is rarely determined automatically. Nonparametric clustering is, in principle, free from these limitations and turns out to be particularly suitable for the task of image segmentation. This is also witnessed by several operational analogies, as, for instance, the resort to topological data analysis and spatial tessellation in both the frameworks. We discuss the application of nonparametric clustering to image segmentation and provide an algorithm specific for this task. Pixel similarity is evaluated in terms of density of the color representation and the adjacency structure of the pixels is exploited to introduce a simple, yet effective method to identify image segments as disconnected high-density regions. The proposed method works both to segment an image and to detect its boundaries and can be seen as a generalization to color images of the class of thresholding methods.
Boundary information plays a significant role in 2D image segmentation, while usually being ignored in 3D point cloud segmentation where ambiguous features might be generated in feature extraction, leading to misclassification in the transition area between two objects. In this paper, firstly, we propose a Boundary Prediction Module (BPM) to predict boundary points. Based on the predicted boundary, a boundary-aware Geometric Encoding Module (GEM) is designed to encode geometric information and aggregate features with discrimination in a neighborhood, so that the local features belonging to different categories will not be polluted by each other. To provide extra geometric information for boundary-aware GEM, we also propose a light-weight Geometric Convolution Operation (GCO), making the extracted features more distinguishing. Built upon the boundary-aware GEM, we build our network and test it on benchmarks like ScanNet v2, S3DIS. Results show our methods can significantly improve the baseline and achieve state-of-the-art performance. Code is available at https://github.com/JchenXu/BoundaryAwareGEM.
Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) for cross-modality medical image segmentation has shown great progress by domain-invariant feature learning or image appearance translation. Adapted feature learning usually cannot detect domain shifts at the pixel level and is not able to achieve good results in dense semantic segmentation tasks. Image appearance translation, e.g. CycleGAN, translates images into different styles with good appearance, despite its population, its semantic consistency is hardly to maintain and results in poor cross-modality segmentation. In this paper, we propose intra- and cross-modality semantic consistency (ICMSC) for UDA and our key insight is that the segmentation of synthesised images in different styles should be consistent. Specifically, our model consists of an image translation module and a domain-specific segmentation module. The image translation module is a standard CycleGAN, while the segmentation module contains two domain-specific segmentation networks. The intra-modality semantic consistency (IMSC) forces the reconstructed image after a cycle to be segmented in the same way as the original input image, while the cross-modality semantic consistency (CMSC) encourages the synthesized images after translation to be segmented exactly the same as before translation. Comprehensive experimental results on cross-modality hip joint bone segmentation show the effectiveness of our proposed method, which achieves an average DICE of 81.61% on the acetabulum and 88.16% on the proximal femur, outperforming other state-of-the-art methods. It is worth to note that without UDA, a model trained on CT for hip joint bone segmentation is non-transferable to MRI and has almost zero-DICE segmentation.
3D Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs) have been widely applied to 3D scene understanding, such as video analysis and volumetric image recognition. However, 3D networks can easily lead to over-parameterization which incurs expensive computation cost. In this paper, we propose Channel-wise Automatic KErnel Shrinking (CAKES), to enable efficient 3D learning by shrinking standard 3D convolutions into a set of economic operations e.g., 1D, 2D convolutions. Unlike previous methods, CAKES performs channel-wise kernel shrinkage, which enjoys the following benefits: 1) enabling operations deployed in every layer to be heterogeneous, so that they can extract diverse and complementary information to benefit the learning process; and 2) allowing for an efficient and flexible replacement design, which can be generalized to both spatial-temporal and volumetric data. Further, we propose a new search space based on CAKES, so that the replacement configuration can be determined automatically for simplifying 3D networks. CAKES shows superior performance to other methods with similar model size, and it also achieves comparable performance to state-of-the-art with much fewer parameters and computational costs on tasks including 3D medical imaging segmentation and video action recognition. Codes and models are available at https://github.com/yucornetto/CAKES
Despite deep convolutional neural networks achieved impressive progress in medical image computing and analysis, its paradigm of supervised learning demands a large number of annotations for training to avoid overfitting and achieving promising results. In clinical practices, massive semantic annotations are difficult to acquire in some conditions where specialized biomedical expert knowledge is required, and it is also a common condition where only few annotated classes are available. In this work, we proposed a novel method for few-shot medical image segmentation, which enables a segmentation model to fast generalize to an unseen class with few training images. We construct our few-shot image segmentor using a deep convolutional network trained episodically. Motivated by the spatial consistency and regularity in medical images, we developed an efficient global correlation module to capture the correlation between a support and query image and incorporate it into the deep network called global correlation network. Moreover, we enhance discriminability of deep embedding to encourage clustering of the feature domains of the same class while keep the feature domains of different organs far apart. Ablation Study proved the effectiveness of the proposed global correlation module and discriminative embedding loss. Extensive experiments on anatomical abdomen images on both CT and MRI modalities are performed to demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our proposed model.
Infrared (IR) image segmentation is essential in many urban defence applications, such as pedestrian surveillance, vehicle counting, security monitoring, etc. Active contour model (ACM) is one of the most widely used image segmentation tools at present, but the existing methods only utilize the local or global single feature information of image to minimize the energy function, which is easy to cause false segmentations in IR images. In this paper, we propose a multi-feature driven active contour segmentation model to handle IR images with intensity inhomogeneity. Firstly, an especially-designed signed pressure force (SPF) function is constructed by combining the global information calculated by global average gray information and the local multi-feature information calculated by local entropy, local standard deviation and gradient information. Then, we draw upon adaptive weight coefficient calculated by local range to adjust the afore-mentioned global term and local term. Next, the SPF function is substituted into the level set formulation (LSF) for further evolution. Finally, the LSF converges after a finite number of iterations, and the IR image segmentation result is obtained from the corresponding convergence result. Experimental results demonstrate that the presented method outperforms the state-of-the-art models in terms of precision rate and overlapping rate in IR test images.
Segmentation of organs of interest in 3D medical images is necessary for accurate diagnosis and longitudinal studies. Though recent advances using deep learning have shown success for many segmentation tasks, large datasets are required for high performance and the annotation process is both time consuming and labor intensive. In this paper, we propose a 3D few shot segmentation framework for accurate organ segmentation using limited training samples of the target organ annotation. To achieve this, a U-Net like network is designed to predict segmentation by learning the relationship between 2D slices of support data and a query image, including a bidirectional gated recurrent unit (GRU) that learns consistency of encoded features between adjacent slices. Also, we introduce a transfer learning method to adapt the characteristics of the target image and organ by updating the model before testing with arbitrary support and query data sampled from the support data. We evaluate our proposed model using three 3D CT datasets with annotations of different organs. Our model yielded significantly improved performance over state-of-the-art few shot segmentation models and was comparable to a fully supervised model trained with more target training data.
Deep learning-based medical image segmentation technology aims at automatic recognizing and annotating objects on the medical image. Non-local attention and feature learning by multi-scale methods are widely used to model network, which drives progress in medical image segmentation. However, those attention mechanism methods have weakly non-local receptive fields' strengthened connection for small objects in medical images. Then, the features of important small objects in abstract or coarse feature maps may be deserted, which leads to unsatisfactory performance. Moreover, the existing multi-scale methods only simply focus on different sizes of view, whose sparse multi-scale features collected are not abundant enough for small objects segmentation. In this work, a multi-dimensional attention segmentation model with cascade multi-scale convolution is proposed to predict accurate segmentation for small objects in medical images. As the weight function, multi-dimensional attention modules provide coefficient modification for significant/informative small objects features. Furthermore, The cascade multi-scale convolution modules in each skip-connection path are exploited to capture multi-scale features in different semantic depth. The proposed method is evaluated on three datasets: KiTS19, Pancreas CT of Decathlon-10, and MICCAI 2018 LiTS Challenge, demonstrating better segmentation performances than the state-of-the-art baselines.
Magnetic resonance (MR) protocols rely on several sequences to assess pathology and organ status properly. Despite advances in image analysis, we tend to treat each sequence, here termed modality, in isolation. Taking advantage of the common information shared between modalities (an organ's anatomy) is beneficial for multi-modality processing and learning. However, we must overcome inherent anatomical misregistrations and disparities in signal intensity across the modalities to obtain this benefit. We present a method that offers improved segmentation accuracy of the modality of interest (over a single input model), by learning to leverage information present in other modalities, even if few (semi-supervised) or no (unsupervised) annotations are available for this specific modality. Core to our method is learning a disentangled decomposition into anatomical and imaging factors. Shared anatomical factors from the different inputs are jointly processed and fused to extract more accurate segmentation masks. Image misregistrations are corrected with a Spatial Transformer Network, which non-linearly aligns the anatomical factors. The imaging factor captures signal intensity characteristics across different modality data and is used for image reconstruction, enabling semi-supervised learning. Temporal and slice pairing between inputs are learned dynamically. We demonstrate applications in Late Gadolinium Enhanced (LGE) and Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) cardiac segmentation, as well as in T2 abdominal segmentation. Code is available at https://github.com/vios-s/multimodal_segmentation.
Standard segmentation of medical images based on full-supervised convolutional networks demands accurate dense annotations. Such learning framework is built on laborious manual annotation with restrict demands for expertise, leading to insufficient high-quality labels. To overcome such limitation and exploit massive weakly labeled data, we relaxed the rigid labeling requirement and developed a semi-supervised learning framework based on a teacher-student fashion for organ and lesion segmentation with partial dense-labeled supervision and supplementary loose bounding-box supervision which are easier to acquire. Observing the geometrical relation of an organ and its inner lesions in most cases, we propose a hierarchical organ-to-lesion (O2L) attention module in a teacher segmentor to produce pseudo-labels. Then a student segmentor is trained with combinations of manual-labeled and pseudo-labeled annotations. We further proposed a localization branch realized via an aggregation of high-level features in a deep decoder to predict locations of organ and lesion, which enriches student segmentor with precise localization information. We validated each design in our model on LiTS challenge datasets by ablation study and showed its state-of-the-art performance compared with recent methods. We show our model is robust to the quality of bounding box and achieves comparable performance compared with full-supervised learning methods.
This paper addresses representational block named Hierarchical-Split Block, which can be taken as a plug-and-play block to upgrade existing convolutional neural networks, improves model performance significantly in a network. Hierarchical-Split Block contains many hierarchical split and concatenate connections within one single residual block. We find multi-scale features is of great importance for numerous vision tasks. Moreover, Hierarchical-Split block is very flexible and efficient, which provides a large space of potential network architectures for different applications. In this work, we present a common backbone based on Hierarchical-Split block for tasks: image classification, object detection, instance segmentation and semantic image segmentation/parsing. Our approach shows significant improvements over all these core tasks in comparison with the baseline. As shown in Figure1, for image classification, our 50-layers network(HS-ResNet50) achieves 81.28% top-1 accuracy with competitive latency on ImageNet-1k dataset. It also outperforms most state-of-the-art models. The source code and models will be available on: https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleClas
We present a novel region based active learning method for semantic image segmentation, called MetaBox+. For acquisition, we train a meta regression model to estimate the segment-wise Intersection over Union (IoU) of each predicted segment of unlabeled images. This can be understood as an estimation of segment-wise prediction quality. Queried regions are supposed to minimize to competing targets, i.e., low predicted IoU values / segmentation quality and low estimated annotation costs. For estimating the latter we propose a simple but practical method for annotation cost estimation. We compare our method to entropy based methods, where we consider the entropy as uncertainty of the prediction. The comparison and analysis of the results provide insights into annotation costs as well as robustness and variance of the methods. Numerical experiments conducted with two different networks on the Cityscapes dataset clearly demonstrate a reduction of annotation effort compared to random acquisition. Noteworthily, we achieve 95%of the mean Intersection over Union (mIoU), using MetaBox+ compared to when training with the full dataset, with only 10.47% / 32.01% annotation effort for the two networks, respectively.
Efficient and easy segmentation of images and volumes is of great practical importance. Segmentation problems that motivate our approach originate from microscopy imaging commonly used in materials science, medicine, and biology. We formulate image segmentation as a probabilistic pixel classification problem, and we apply segmentation as a step towards characterising image content. Our method allows the user to define structures of interest by interactively marking a subset of pixels. Thanks to the real-time feedback, the user can place new markings strategically, depending on the current outcome. The final pixel classification may be obtained from a very modest user input. An important ingredient of our method is a graph that encodes image content. This graph is built in an unsupervised manner during initialisation and is based on clustering of image features. Since we combine a limited amount of user-labelled data with the clustering information obtained from the unlabelled parts of the image, our method fits in the general framework of semi-supervised learning. We demonstrate how this can be a very efficient approach to segmentation through pixel classification.
The need for labour intensive pixel-wise annotation is a major limitation of many fully supervised learning methods for segmenting bioimages that can contain numerous object instances with thin separations. In this paper, we introduce a deep convolutional neural network for microscopy image segmentation. Annotation issues are circumvented by letting the network being trainable on coarse labels combined with only a very small number of images with pixel-wise annotations. We call this new labelling strategy `lazy' labels. Image segmentation is stratified into three connected tasks: rough inner region detection, object separation and pixel-wise segmentation. These tasks are learned in an end-to-end multi-task learning framework. The method is demonstrated on two microscopy datasets, where we show that the model gives accurate segmentation results even if exact boundary labels are missing for a majority of annotated data. It brings more flexibility and efficiency for training deep neural networks that are data hungry and is applicable to biomedical images with poor contrast at the object boundaries or with diverse textures and repeated patterns.
Image segmentation methods are usually trained with pixel-level annotations, which require significant human effort to collect. The most common solution to address this constraint is to implement weakly-supervised pipelines trained with lower forms of supervision, such as bounding boxes or scribbles. Another option are semi-supervised methods, which leverage a large amount of unlabeled data and a limited number of strongly-labeled samples. In this second setup, samples to be strongly-annotated can be selected randomly or with an active learning mechanism that chooses the ones that will maximize the model performance. In this work, we propose a sample selection approach to decide which samples to annotate for semi-supervised instance segmentation. Our method consists in first predicting pseudo-masks for the unlabeled pool of samples, together with a score predicting the quality of the mask. This score is an estimate of the Intersection Over Union (IoU) of the segment with the ground truth mask. We study which samples are better to annotate given the quality score, and show how our approach outperforms a random selection, leading to improved performance for semi-supervised instance segmentation with low annotation budgets.
The 3D volumetric shape of the heart's left ventricle (LV) myocardium (MYO) wall provides important information for diagnosis of cardiac disease and invasive procedure navigation. Many cardiac image segmentation methods have relied on detection of region-of-interest as a pre-requisite for shape segmentation and modeling. With segmentation results, a 3D surface mesh and a corresponding point cloud of the segmented cardiac volume can be reconstructed for further analyses. Although state-of-the-art methods (e.g., U-Net) have achieved decent performance on cardiac image segmentation in terms of accuracy, these segmentation results can still suffer from imaging artifacts and noise, which will lead to inaccurate shape modeling results. In this paper, we propose a PC-U net that jointly reconstructs the point cloud of the LV MYO wall directly from volumes of 2D CT slices and generates its segmentation masks from the predicted 3D point cloud. Extensive experimental results show that by incorporating a shape prior from the point cloud, the segmentation masks are more accurate than the state-of-the-art U-Net results in terms of Dice's coefficient and Hausdorff distance.The proposed joint learning framework of our PC-U net is beneficial for automatic cardiac image analysis tasks because it can obtain simultaneously the 3D shape and segmentation of the LV MYO walls.
In this paper, we propose a new approach for building cellular automata to solve real-world segmentation problems. We design and train a cellular automaton that can successfully segment high-resolution images. We consider a colony that densely inhabits the pixel grid, and all cells are governed by a randomized update that uses the current state, the color, and the state of the $3\times 3$ neighborhood. The space of possible rules is defined by a small neural network. The update rule is applied repeatedly in parallel to a large random subset of cells and after convergence is used to produce segmentation masks that are then back-propagated to learn the optimal update rules using standard gradient descent methods. We demonstrate that such models can be learned efficiently with only limited trajectory length and that they show remarkable ability to organize the information to produce a globally consistent segmentation result, using only local information exchange. From a practical perspective, our approach allows us to build very efficient models -- our smallest automaton uses less than 10,000 parameters to solve complex segmentation tasks.
Polarimetric synthetic aperture radar (PolSAR) image segmentation is currently of great importance in image processing for remote sensing applications. However, it is a challenging task due to two main reasons. Firstly, the label information is difficult to acquire due to high annotation costs. Secondly, the speckle effect embedded in the PolSAR imaging process remarkably degrades the segmentation performance. To address these two issues, we present a contextual PolSAR image semantic segmentation method in this paper.With a newly defined channelwise consistent feature set as input, the three-dimensional discrete wavelet transform (3D-DWT) technique is employed to extract discriminative multi-scale features that are robust to speckle noise. Then Markov random field (MRF) is further applied to enforce label smoothness spatially during segmentation. By simultaneously utilizing 3D-DWT features and MRF priors for the first time, contextual information is fully integrated during the segmentation to ensure accurate and smooth segmentation. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments on three real benchmark PolSAR image data sets. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method achieves promising segmentation accuracy and preferable spatial consistency using a minimal number of labeled pixels.
Deep learning has achieved great success as a powerful classification tool and also made great progress in sematic segmentation. As a result, many researchers also believe that deep learning is the most powerful tool for pixel level image segmentation. Could deep learning achieve the same pixel level accuracy as traditional image segmentation techniques by mapping the features of the object into a non-linear function? This paper gives a short survey of the accuracies achieved by deep learning so far in image classification and image segmentation. Compared to the high accuracies achieved by deep learning in classifying limited categories in international vision challenges, the image segmentation accuracies achieved by deep learning in the same challenges are only about eighty percent. On the contrary, the image segmentation accuracies achieved in international biomedical challenges are close to ninty five percent. Why the difference is so big? Since the accuracies of the competitors methods are only evaluated based on their submitted results instead of reproducing the results by submitting the source codes or the software, are the achieved accuracies verifiable or overhyped? We are going to find it out by analyzing the working principle of deep learning. Finally, we compared the accuracies of state of the art deep learning methods with a threshold selection method quantitatively. Experimental results showed that the threshold selection method could achieve significantly higher accuracy than deep learning methods in image segmentation.
Semi-supervised learning has attracted much attention in medical image segmentation due to challenges in acquiring pixel-wise image annotations, which is a crucial step for building high-performance deep learning methods. Most existing semi-supervised segmentation approaches either tend to neglect geometric constraint in object segments, leading to incomplete object coverage, or impose strong shape prior that requires extra alignment. In this work, we propose a novel shapeaware semi-supervised segmentation strategy to leverage abundant unlabeled data and to enforce a geometric shape constraint on the segmentation output. To achieve this, we develop a multi-task deep network that jointly predicts semantic segmentation and signed distance map(SDM) of object surfaces. During training, we introduce an adversarial loss between the predicted SDMs of labeled and unlabeled data so that our network is able to capture shape-aware features more effectively. Experiments on the Atrial Segmentation Challenge dataset show that our method outperforms current state-of-the-art approaches with improved shape estimation, which validates its efficacy. Code is available at https://github.com/kleinzcy/SASSnet.
The performance of deep networks for semantic image segmentation largely depends on the availability of large-scale training images which are labelled at the pixel level. Typically, such pixel-level image labellings are obtained manually by a labour-intensive process. To alleviate the burden of manual image labelling, we propose an interesting learning approach to generate pixel-level image labellings automatically. A Guided Filter Network (GFN) is first developed to learn the segmentation knowledge from a source domain, and such GFN then transfers such segmentation knowledge to generate coarse object masks in the target domain. Such coarse object masks are treated as pseudo labels and they are further integrated to optimize/refine the GFN iteratively in the target domain. Our experiments on six image sets have demonstrated that our proposed approach can generate fine-grained object masks (i.e., pixel-level object labellings), whose quality is very comparable to the manually-labelled ones. Our proposed approach can also achieve better performance on semantic image segmentation than most existing weakly-supervised approaches.
Convolutional neural networks have shown to achieve superior performance on image segmentation tasks. However, convolutional neural networks, operating as black-box systems, generally do not provide a reliable measure about the confidence of their decisions. This leads to various problems in industrial settings, amongst others, inadequate levels of trust from users in the model's outputs as well as a non-compliance with current policy guidelines (e.g., EU AI Strategy). To address these issues, we use uncertainty measures based on Monte-Carlo dropout in the context of a human-in-the-loop system to increase the system's transparency and performance. In particular, we demonstrate the benefits described above on a real-world multi-class image segmentation task of wear analysis in the machining industry. Following previous work, we show that the quality of a prediction correlates with the model's uncertainty. Additionally, we demonstrate that a multiple linear regression using the model's uncertainties as independent variables significantly explains the quality of a prediction (\(R^2=0.718\)). Within the uncertainty-based human-in-the-loop system, the multiple regression aims at identifying failed predictions on an image-level. The system utilizes a human expert to label these failed predictions manually. A simulation study demonstrates that the uncertainty-based human-in-the-loop system increases performance for different levels of human involvement in comparison to a random-based human-in-the-loop system. To ensure generalizability, we show that the presented approach achieves similar results on the publicly available Cityscapes dataset.
Medical image annotations are prohibitively time-consuming and expensive to obtain. To alleviate annotation scarcity, many approaches have been developed to efficiently utilize extra information, e.g.,semi-supervised learning further exploring plentiful unlabeled data, domain adaptation including multi-modality learning and unsupervised domain adaptation resorting to the prior knowledge from additional modality. In this paper, we aim to investigate the feasibility of simultaneously leveraging abundant unlabeled data and well-established cross-modality data for annotation-efficient medical image segmentation. To this end, we propose a novel semi-supervised domain adaptation approach, namely Dual-Teacher, where the student model not only learns from labeled target data (e.g., CT), but also explores unlabeled target data and labeled source data (e.g., MR) by two teacher models. Specifically, the student model learns the knowledge of unlabeled target data from intra-domain teacher by encouraging prediction consistency, as well as the shape priors embedded in labeled source data from inter-domain teacher via knowledge distillation. Consequently, the student model can effectively exploit the information from all three data resources and comprehensively integrate them to achieve improved performance. We conduct extensive experiments on MM-WHS 2017 dataset and demonstrate that our approach is able to concurrently utilize unlabeled data and cross-modality data with superior performance, outperforming semi-supervised learning and domain adaptation methods with a large margin.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have recently seen tremendous success in various computer vision tasks. However, their application to problems with high dimensional input and output, such as high-resolution image and video segmentation or 3D medical imaging, has been limited by various factors. Primarily, in the training stage, it is necessary to store network activations for back propagation. In these settings, the memory requirements associated with storing activations can exceed what is feasible with current hardware, especially for problems in 3D. Motivated by the propagation of signals over physical networks, that are governed by the hyperbolic Telegraph equation, in this work we introduce a fully conservative hyperbolic network for problems with high dimensional input and output. We introduce a coarsening operation that allows completely reversible CNNs by using a learnable Discrete Wavelet Transform and its inverse to both coarsen and interpolate the network state and change the number of channels. We show that fully reversible networks are able to achieve results comparable to the state of the art in 4D time-lapse hyper spectral image segmentation and full 3D video segmentation, with a much lower memory footprint that is a constant independent of the network depth. We also extend the use of such networks to Variational Auto Encoders with high resolution input and output.
Computer vision tasks such as semantic segmentation perform very well in good weather conditions, but if the weather turns bad, they have problems to achieve this performance in these conditions. One possibility to obtain more robust and reliable results in adverse weather conditions is to use video-segmentation approaches instead of commonly used single-image segmentation methods. Video-segmentation approaches capture temporal information of the previous video-frames in addition to current image information, and hence, they are more robust against disturbances, especially if they occur in only a few frames of the video-sequence. However, video-segmentation approaches, which are often based on recurrent neural networks, cannot be applied in real-time applications anymore, since their recurrent structures in the network are computational expensive. For instance, the inference time of the LSTM-ICNet, in which recurrent units are placed at proper positions in the single-segmentation approach ICNet, increases up to 61 percent compared to the basic ICNet. Hence, in this work, the LSTM-ICNet is sped up by modifying the recurrent units of the network so that it becomes real-time capable again. Experiments on different datasets and various weather conditions show that the inference time can be decreased by about 23 percent by these modifications, while they achieve similar performance than the LSTM-ICNet and outperform the single-segmentation approach enormously in adverse weather conditions.
Self-supervised learning has proven to be invaluable in making best use of all of the available data in biomedical image segmentation. One particularly simple and effective mechanism to achieve self-supervision is inpainting, the task of predicting arbitrary missing areas based on the rest of an image. In this work, we focus on image inpainting as the self-supervised proxy task, and propose two novel structural changes to further enhance the performance of a deep neural network. We guide the process of generating images to inpaint by using supervoxel-based masking instead of random masking, and also by focusing on the area to be segmented in the primary task, which we term as the region-of-interest. We postulate that these additions force the network to learn semantics that are more attuned to the primary task, and test our hypotheses on two applications: brain tumour and white matter hyperintensities segmentation. We empirically show that our proposed approach consistently outperforms both supervised CNNs, without any self-supervision, and conventional inpainting-based self-supervision methods on both large and small training set sizes.
Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have contributed many breakthroughs in segmentation tasks, especially in the field of medical imaging. However, \textit{domain shift} and \textit{corrupted annotations}, which are two common problems in medical imaging, dramatically degrade the performance of DCNNs in practice. In this paper, we propose a novel robust cross-denoising framework using two peer networks to address domain shift and corrupted label problems with a peer-review strategy. Specifically, each network performs as a mentor, mutually supervised to learn from reliable samples selected by the peer network to combat with corrupted labels. In addition, a noise-tolerant loss is proposed to encourage the network to capture the key location and filter the discrepancy under various noise-contaminant labels. To further reduce the accumulated error, we introduce a class-imbalanced cross learning using most confident predictions at the class-level. Experimental results on REFUGE and Drishti-GS datasets for optic disc (OD) and optic cup (OC) segmentation demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed approach to the state-of-the-art methods.
We focus on an important yet challenging problem: using a 2D deep network to deal with 3D segmentation for medical image analysis. Existing approaches either applied multi-view planar (2D) networks or directly used volumetric (3D) networks for this purpose, but both of them are not ideal: 2D networks cannot capture 3D contexts effectively, and 3D networks are both memory-consuming and less stable arguably due to the lack of pre-trained models. In this paper, we bridge the gap between 2D and 3D using a novel approach named Elastic Boundary Projection (EBP). The key observation is that, although the object is a 3D volume, what we really need in segmentation is to find its boundary which is a 2D surface. Therefore, we place a number of pivot points in the 3D space, and for each pivot, we determine its distance to the object boundary along a dense set of directions. This creates an elastic shell around each pivot which is initialized as a perfect sphere. We train a 2D deep network to determine whether each ending point falls within the object, and gradually adjust the shell so that it gradually converges to the actual shape of the boundary and thus achieves the goal of segmentation. EBP allows boundary-based segmentation without cutting a 3D volume into slices or patches, which stands out from conventional 2D and 3D approaches. EBP achieves promising accuracy in abdominal organ segmentation. Our code has been open-sourced https://github.com/twni2016/Elastic-Boundary-Projection.
Image segmentation is a fundamental vision task and a crucial step for many applications. In this paper, we propose a fast image segmentation method based on a novel super boundary-to-pixel direction (super-BPD) and a customized segmentation algorithm with super-BPD. Precisely, we define BPD on each pixel as a two-dimensional unit vector pointing from its nearest boundary to the pixel. In the BPD, nearby pixels from different regions have opposite directions departing from each other, and adjacent pixels in the same region have directions pointing to the other or each other (i.e., around medial points). We make use of such property to partition an image into super-BPDs, which are novel informative superpixels with robust direction similarity for fast grouping into segmentation regions. Extensive experimental results on BSDS500 and Pascal Context demonstrate the accuracy and efficency of the proposed super-BPD in segmenting images. In practice, the proposed super-BPD achieves comparable or superior performance with MCG while running at ~25fps vs. 0.07fps. Super-BPD also exhibits a noteworthy transferability to unseen scenes. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/JianqiangWan/Super-BPD.
Recently, Deep-Neural-Network (DNN) based edge prediction is progressing fast. Although the DNN based schemes outperform the traditional edge detectors, they have much higher computational complexity. It could be that the DNN based edge detectors often adopt the neural net structures designed for high-level computer vision tasks, such as image segmentation and object recognition. Edge detection is a rather local and simple job, the over-complicated architecture and massive parameters may be unnecessary. Therefore, we propose a traditional method inspired framework to produce good edges with minimal complexity. We simplify the network architecture to include Feature Extractor, Enrichment, and Summarizer, which roughly correspond to gradient, low pass filter, and pixel connection in the traditional edge detection schemes. The proposed structure can effectively reduce the complexity and retain the edge prediction quality. Our TIN2 (Traditional Inspired Network) model has an accuracy higher than the recent BDCN2 (Bi-Directional Cascade Network) but with a smaller model.
Convex Shapes (CS) are common priors for optic disc and cup segmentation in eye fundus images. It is important to design proper techniques to represent convex shapes. So far, it is still a problem to guarantee that the output objects from a Deep Neural Convolution Networks (DCNN) are convex shapes. In this work, we propose a technique which can be easily integrated into the commonly used DCNNs for image segmentation and guarantee that outputs are convex shapes. This method is flexible and it can handle multiple objects and allow some of the objects to be convex. Our method is based on the dual representation of the sigmoid activation function in DCNNs. In the dual space, the convex shape prior can be guaranteed by a simple quadratic constraint on a binary representation of the shapes. Moreover, our method can also integrate spatial regularization and some other shape prior using a soft thresholding dynamics (STD) method. The regularization can make the boundary curves of the segmentation objects to be simultaneously smooth and convex. We design a very stable active set projection algorithm to numerically solve our model. This algorithm can form a new plug-and-play DCNN layer called CS-STD whose outputs must be a nearly binary segmentation of convex objects. In the CS-STD block, the convexity information can be propagated to guide the DCNN in both forward and backward propagation during training and prediction process. As an application example, we apply the convexity prior layer to the retinal fundus images segmentation by taking
We extend first-order model agnostic meta-learning algorithms (including FOMAML and Reptile) to image segmentation, present a novel neural network architecture built for fast learning which we call EfficientLab, and leverage a formal definition of the test error of meta-learning algorithms to decrease error on out of distribution tasks. We show state of the art results on the FSS-1000 dataset by meta-training EfficientLab with FOMAML and using Bayesian optimization to infer the optimal test-time adaptation routine hyperparameters. We also construct a small benchmark dataset, FP-k, for the empirical study of how meta-learning systems perform in both few- and many-shot settings. On the FP-k dataset, we show that meta-learned initializations provide value for canonical few-shot image segmentation but their performance is quickly matched by conventional transfer learning with performance being equal beyond 10 labeled examples. Our code, meta-learned model, and the FP-k dataset are available at https://github.com/ml4ai/mliis .
The ability of neural networks to continuously learn and adapt to new tasks while retaining prior knowledge is crucial for many applications. However, current neural networks tend to forget previously learned tasks when trained on new ones, i.e., they suffer from Catastrophic Forgetting (CF). The objective of Continual Learning (CL) is to alleviate this problem, which is particularly relevant for medical applications, where it may not be feasible to store and access previously used sensitive patient data. In this work, we propose a Continual Learning approach for brain segmentation, where a single network is consecutively trained on samples from different domains. We build upon an importance driven approach and adapt it for medical image segmentation. Particularly, we introduce learning rate regularization to prevent the loss of the network's knowledge. Our results demonstrate that directly restricting the adaptation of important network parameters clearly reduces Catastrophic Forgetting for segmentation across domains.
Segmentation partitions an image into different regions containing pixels with similar attributes. A standard non-contextual variant of Fuzzy C-means clustering algorithm (FCM), considering its simplicity is generally used in image segmentation. Using FCM has its disadvantages like it is dependent on the initial guess of the number of clusters and highly sensitive to noise. Satisfactory visual segments cannot be obtained using FCM. Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) belongs to the class of evolutionary algorithms and has good convergence speed and fewer parameters compared to Genetic Algorithms (GAs). An optimized version of PSO can be combined with FCM to act as a proper initializer for the algorithm thereby reducing its sensitivity to initial guess. A hybrid PSO algorithm named Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization (APSO) which improves in the calculation of various hyper parameters like inertia weight, learning factors over standard PSO, using insights from swarm behaviour, leading to improvement in cluster quality can be used. This paper presents a new image segmentation algorithm called Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization and Fuzzy C-means Clustering Algorithm (APSOF), which is based on Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization (APSO) and Fuzzy C-means clustering. Experimental results show that APSOF algorithm has edge over FCM in correctly identifying the optimum cluster centers, there by leading to accurate classification of the image pixels. Hence, APSOF algorithm has superior performance in comparison with classic Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and Fuzzy C-means clustering algorithm (FCM) for image segmentation.
Recent years have witnessed the great progress of deep neural networks on semantic segmentation, particularly in medical imaging. Nevertheless, training high-performing models require large amounts of pixel-level ground truth masks, which can be prohibitive to obtain in the medical domain. Furthermore, training such models in a low-data regime highly increases the risk of overfitting. Recent attempts to alleviate the need for large annotated datasets have developed training strategies under the few-shot learning paradigm, which addresses this shortcoming by learning a novel class from only a few labeled examples. In this context, a segmentation model is trained on episodes, which represent different segmentation problems, each of them trained with a very small labeled dataset. In this work, we propose a novel few-shot learning framework for semantic segmentation, where unlabeled images are also made available at each episode. To handle this new learning paradigm, we propose to include surrogate tasks that can leverage very powerful supervisory signals --derived from the data itself-- for semantic feature learning. We show that including unlabeled surrogate tasks in the episodic training leads to more powerful feature representations, which ultimately results in better generability to unseen tasks. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method in the task of skin lesion segmentation in two publicly available datasets. Furthermore, our approach is general and model-agnostic, which can be combined with different deep architectures.
The Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML) are worldwide practices to online customer identification based on personal identification documents, similarity and liveness checking, and proof of address. To answer the basic regulation question: are you whom you say you are? The customer needs to upload valid identification documents (ID). This task imposes some computational challenges since these documents are diverse, may present different and complex backgrounds, some occlusion, partial rotation, poor quality, or damage. Advanced text and document segmentation algorithms were used to process the ID images. In this context, we investigated a method based on U-Net to detect the document edges and text regions in ID images. Besides the promising results on image segmentation, the U-Net based approach is computationally expensive for a real application, since the image segmentation is a customer device task. We propose a model optimization based on Octave Convolutions to qualify the method to situations where storage, processing, and time resources are limited, such as in mobile and robotic applications. We conducted the evaluation experiments in two new datasets CDPhotoDataset and DTDDataset, which are composed of real ID images of Brazilian documents. Our results showed that the proposed models are efficient to document segmentation tasks and portable.
The perceptual-based grouping process produces a hierarchical and compositional image representation that helps both human and machine vision systems recognize heterogeneous visual concepts. Examples can be found in the classical hierarchical superpixel segmentation or image parsing works. However, the grouping process is largely overlooked in modern CNN-based image segmentation networks due to many challenges, including the inherent incompatibility between the grid-shaped CNN feature map and the irregular-shaped perceptual grouping hierarchy. Overcoming these challenges, we propose a deep grouping model (DGM) that tightly marries the two types of representations and defines a bottom-up and a top-down process for feature exchanging. When evaluating the model on the recent Broden+ dataset for the unified perceptual parsing task, it achieves state-of-the-art results while having a small computational overhead compared to other contextual-based segmentation models. Furthermore, the DGM has better interpretability compared with modern CNN methods.
One usage of medical ultrasound imaging is to visualize and characterize human tongue shape and motion during a real-time speech to study healthy or impaired speech production. Due to the low-contrast characteristic and noisy nature of ultrasound images, it might require expertise for non-expert users to recognize tongue gestures in applications such as visual training of a second language. Moreover, quantitative analysis of tongue motion needs the tongue dorsum contour to be extracted, tracked, and visualized. Manual tongue contour extraction is a cumbersome, subjective, and error-prone task. Furthermore, it is not a feasible solution for real-time applications. The growth of deep learning has been vigorously exploited in various computer vision tasks, including ultrasound tongue contour tracking. In the current methods, the process of tongue contour extraction comprises two steps of image segmentation and post-processing. This paper presents a new novel approach of automatic and real-time tongue contour tracking using deep neural networks. In the proposed method, instead of the two-step procedure, landmarks of the tongue surface are tracked. This novel idea enables researchers in this filed to benefits from available previously annotated databases to achieve high accuracy results. Our experiment disclosed the outstanding performances of the proposed technique in terms of generalization, performance, and accuracy.
Fine-grained annotations---e.g. dense image labels, image segmentation and text tagging---are useful in many ML applications but they are labor-intensive to generate. Moreover there are often systematic, structured errors in these fine-grained annotations. For example, a car might be entirely unannotated in the image, or the boundary between a car and street might only be coarsely annotated. Standard ML training on data with such structured errors produces models with biases and poor performance. In this work, we propose a novel framework of Error-Correcting Networks (ECN) to address the challenge of learning in the presence structured error in fine-grained annotations. Given a large noisy dataset with commonly occurring structured errors, and a much smaller dataset with more accurate annotations, ECN is able to substantially improve the prediction of fine-grained annotations compared to standard approaches for training on noisy data. It does so by learning to leverage the structures in the annotations and in the noisy labels. Systematic experiments on image segmentation and text tagging demonstrate the strong performance of ECN in improving training on noisy structured labels.
Image segmentation is a fundamental research topic in image processing and computer vision. In the last decades, researchers developed a large number of segmentation algorithms for various applications. Amongst these algorithms, the Normalized cut (Ncut) segmentation method is widely applied due to its good performance. The Ncut segmentation model is an optimization problem whose energy is defined on a specifically designed graph. Thus, the segmentation results of the existing Ncut method are largely dependent on a pre-constructed similarity measure on the graph since this measure is usually given empirically by users. This flaw will lead to some undesirable segmentation results. In this paper, we propose a Ncut-based segmentation algorithm by integrating an adaptive similarity measure and spatial regularization. The proposed model combines the Parzen-Rosenblatt window method, non-local weights entropy, Ncut energy, and regularizer of phase field in a variational framework. Our method can adaptively update the similarity measure function by estimating some parameters. This adaptive procedure enables the proposed algorithm finding a better similarity measure for classification than the Ncut method. We provide some mathematical interpretation of the proposed adaptive similarity from multi-viewpoints such as statistics and convex optimization. In addition, the regularizer of phase field can guarantee that the proposed algorithm has a robust performance in the presence of noise, and it can also rectify the similarity measure with a spatial priori. The well-posed theory such as the existence of the minimizer for the proposed model is given in the paper. Compared with some existing segmentation methods such as
Arbitrary style transfer is the task of synthesis of an image that has never been seen before, using two given images: content image and style image. The content image forms the structure, the basic geometric lines and shapes of the resulting image, while the style image sets the color and texture of the result. The word "arbitrary" in this context means the absence of any one pre-learned style. So, for example, convolutional neural networks capable of transferring a new style only after training or retraining on a new amount of data are not con-sidered to solve such a problem, while networks based on the attention mech-anism that are capable of performing such a transformation without retraining - yes. An original image can be, for example, a photograph, and a style image can be a painting of a famous artist. The resulting image in this case will be the scene depicted in the original photograph, made in the stylie of this picture. Recent arbitrary style transfer algorithms make it possible to achieve good re-sults in this task, however, in processing portrait images of people, the result of such algorithms is either unacceptable due to excessive distortion of facial features, or weakly expressed, not bearing the characteristic features of a style image. In this paper, we consider an approach to solving this problem using the combined architecture of deep neural networks with a attention mechanism that transfers style based on the contents of a particular image segment: with a clear predominance of
Even though convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are driving progress in medical image segmentation, standard models still have some drawbacks. First, the use of multi-scale approaches, i.e., encoder-decoder architectures, leads to a redundant use of information, where similar low-level features are extracted multiple times at multiple scales. Second, long-range feature dependencies are not efficiently modeled, resulting in non-optimal discriminative feature representations associated with each semantic class. In this paper we attempt to overcome these limitations with the proposed architecture, by capturing richer contextual dependencies based on the use of guided self-attention mechanisms. This approach is able to integrate local features with their corresponding global dependencies, as well as highlight interdependent channel maps in an adaptive manner. Further, the additional loss between different modules guides the attention mechanisms to neglect irrelevant information and focus on more discriminant regions of the image by emphasizing relevant feature associations. We evaluate the proposed model in the context of semantic segmentation on three different datasets: abdominal organs, cardiovascular structures and brain tumors. A series of ablation experiments support the importance of these attention modules in the proposed architecture. In addition, compared to other state-of-the-art segmentation networks our model yields better segmentation performance, increasing the accuracy of the predictions while reducing the standard deviation. This demonstrates the efficiency of our approach to generate precise and reliable automatic segmentations of medical images. Our code is made publicly available at https://github.com/sinAshish/Multi-Scale-Attention
We use Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNNs) for image segmentation problems. DCNNs can well extract the features from natural images. However, the classification functions in the existing network architecture of CNNs are simple and lack capabilities to handle important spatial information in a way that have been done for many well-known traditional variational models. Prior such as spatial regularity, volume prior and object shapes cannot be well handled by existing DCNNs. We propose a novel Soft Threshold Dynamics (STD) framework which can easily integrate many spatial priors of the classical variational models into the DCNNs for image segmentation. The novelty of our method is to interpret the softmax activation function as a dual variable in a variational problem, and thus many spatial priors can be imposed in the dual space. From this viewpoint, we can build a STD based framework which can enable the outputs of DCNNs to have many special priors such as spatial regularity, volume constraints and star-shape priori. The proposed method is a general mathematical framework and it can be applied to any semantic segmentation DCNNs. To show the efficiency and accuracy of our method, we applied it to the popular DeepLabV3+ image segmentation network, and the experiments results show that our method can work efficiently on data-driven image segmentation DCNNs.
We consider referring image segmentation. It is a problem at the intersection of computer vision and natural language understanding. Given an input image and a referring expression in the form of a natural language sentence, the goal is to segment the object of interest in the image referred by the linguistic query. To this end, we propose a dual convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM) network to tackle this problem. Our model consists of an encoder network and a decoder network, where ConvLSTM is used in both encoder and decoder networks to capture spatial and sequential information. The encoder network extracts visual and linguistic features for each word in the expression sentence, and adopts an attention mechanism to focus on words that are more informative in the multimodal interaction. The decoder network integrates the features generated by the encoder network at multiple levels as its input and produces the final precise segmentation mask. Experimental results on four challenging datasets demonstrate that the proposed network achieves superior segmentation performance compared with other state-of-the-art methods.
Image segmentation with a volume constraint is an important prior for many real applications. In this work, we present a novel volume preserving image segmentation algorithm, which is based on the framework of entropic regularized optimal transport theory. The classical Total Variation (TV) regularizer and volume preserving are integrated into a regularized optimal transport model, and the volume and classification constraints can be regarded as two measures preserving constraints in the optimal transport problem. By studying the dual problem, we develop a simple and efficient dual algorithm for our model. Moreover, to be different from many variational based image segmentation algorithms, the proposed algorithm can be directly unrolled to a new Volume Preserving and TV regularized softmax (VPTV-softmax) layer for semantic segmentation in the popular Deep Convolution Neural Network (DCNN). The experiment results show that our proposed model is very competitive and can improve the performance of many semantic segmentation nets such as the popular U-net.
Image segmentation and classification are the two main fundamental steps in pattern recognition. To perform medical image segmentation or classification with deep learning models, it requires training on large image dataset with annotation. The dermoscopy images (ISIC archive) considered for this work does not have ground truth information for lesion segmentation. Performing manual labelling on this dataset is time-consuming. To overcome this issue, self-learning annotation scheme was proposed in the two-stage deep learning algorithm. The two-stage deep learning algorithm consists of U-Net segmentation model with the annotation scheme and CNN classifier model. The annotation scheme uses a K-means clustering algorithm along with merging conditions to achieve initial labelling information for training the U-Net model. The classifier models namely ResNet-50 and LeNet-5 were trained and tested on the image dataset without segmentation for comparison and with the U-Net segmentation for implementing the proposed self-learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) framework. The classification results of the proposed AI framework achieved training accuracy of 93.8% and testing accuracy of 82.42% when compared with the two classifier models directly trained on the input images.
Recent advances in AI technology have made the forgery of digital images and videos easier, and it has become significantly more difficult to identify such forgeries. These forgeries, if disseminated with malicious intent, can negatively impact social and political stability, and pose significant ethical and legal challenges as well. Deepfake is a variant of auto-encoders that use deep learning techniques to identify and exchange images of a person's face in a picture or film. Deepfake can result in an erosion of public trust in digital images and videos, which has far-reaching effects on political and social stability. This study therefore proposes a solution for facial forgery detection to determine if a picture or film has ever been processed by Deepfake. The proposed solution reaches detection efficiency by using the recently proposed separable convolutional neural network (CNN) and image segmentation. In addition, this study also examined how different image segmentation methods affect detection results. Finally, the ensemble model is used to improve detection capabilities. Experiment results demonstrated the excellent performance of the proposed solution.
This paper describes a fast and accurate semantic image segmentation approach that encodes not only the discriminative features from deep neural networks, but also the high-order context compatibility among adjacent objects as well as low level image features. We formulate the underlying problem as the conditional random field that embeds local feature extraction, clique potential construction, and guided filtering within the same framework, and provide an efficient coarse-to-fine solver. At the coarse level, we combine local feature representation and context interaction using a deep convolutional network, and directly learn the interaction from high order cliques with a message passing routine, avoiding time-consuming explicit graph inference for joint probability distribution. At the fine level, we introduce a guided filtering interpretation for the mean field algorithm, and achieve accurate object boundaries with 100+ faster than classic learning methods. The two parts are connected and jointly trained in an end-to-end fashion. Experimental results on Pascal VOC 2012 dataset have shown that the proposed algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art, and that it achieves the rank 1 performance at the time of submission, both of which prove the effectiveness of this unified framework for semantic image segmentation.
We propose a framework for top-down salient object detection that incorporates a tightly coupled image classification module. The classifier is trained on novel category-aware sparse codes computed on object dictionaries used for saliency modeling. A misclassification indicates that the corresponding saliency model is inaccurate. Hence, the classifier selects images for which the saliency models need to be updated. The category-aware sparse coding produces better image classification accuracy as compared to conventional sparse coding with a reduced computational complexity. A saliency-weighted max-pooling is proposed to improve image classification, which is further used to refine the saliency maps. Experimental results on Graz-02 and PASCAL VOC-07 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of salient object detection. Although the role of the classifier is to support salient object detection, we evaluate its performance in image classification and also illustrate the utility of thresholded saliency maps for image segmentation.
Extracting a connectome from an electron microscopy (EM) data set requires identification of neurons and determination of synapses between neurons. As manual extraction of this information is very time-consuming, there has been extensive research effort to automatically segment the neurons to help guide and eventually replace manual tracing. Until recently, there has been comparatively less research on automatically detecting the actual synapses between neurons. This discrepancy can, in part, be attributed to several factors: obtaining neuronal shapes is a prerequisite first step in extracting a connectome, manual tracing is much more time-consuming than annotating synapses, and neuronal contact area can be used as a proxy for synapses in determining connections. However, recent research has demonstrated that contact area alone is not a sufficient predictor of synaptic connection. Moreover, as segmentation has improved, we have observed that synapse annotation is consuming a more significant fraction of overall reconstruction time. This ratio will only get worse as segmentation improves, gating overall possible speed-up. Therefore, we address this problem by developing algorithms that automatically detect pre-synaptic neurons and their post-synaptic partners. In particular, pre-synaptic structures are detected using a Deep and Wide Multiscale Recursive Network, and post-synaptic partners are detected using a MLP with features conditioned on the local segmentation. This work is novel because it requires minimal amount of training, leverages advances in image segmentation directly, and provides a complete solution for polyadic synapse detection. We further introduce novel metrics to evaluate our algorithm on connectomes of meaningful size. These metrics demonstrate
The paper proposes a novel Kernelized image segmentation scheme for noisy images that utilizes the concept of Smallest Univalue Segment Assimilating Nucleus (SUSAN) and incorporates spatial constraints by computing circular colour map induced weights. Fuzzy damping coefficients are obtained for each nucleus or center pixel on the basis of the corresponding weighted SUSAN area values, the weights being equal to the inverse of the number of horizontal and vertical moves required to reach a neighborhood pixel from the center pixel. These weights are used to vary the contributions of the different nuclei in the Kernel based framework. The paper also presents an edge quality metric obtained by fuzzy decision based edge candidate selection and final computation of the blurriness of the edges after their selection. The inability of existing algorithms to preserve edge information and structural details in their segmented maps necessitates the computation of the edge quality factor (EQF) for all the competing algorithms. Qualitative and quantitative analysis have been rendered with respect to state-of-the-art algorithms and for images ridden with varying types of noises. Speckle noise ridden SAR images and Rician noise ridden Magnetic Resonance Images have also been considered for evaluating the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm in extracting important segmentation information.
Tackling pattern recognition problems in areas such as computer vision, bioinformatics, speech or text recognition is often done best by taking into account task-specific statistical relations between output variables. In structured prediction, this internal structure is used to predict multiple outputs simultaneously, leading to more accurate and coherent predictions. Structural support vector machines (SSVMs) are nonprobabilistic models that optimize a joint input-output function through margin-based learning. Because SSVMs generally disregard the interplay between unary and interaction factors during the training phase, final parameters are suboptimal. Moreover, its factors are often restricted to linear combinations of input features, limiting its generalization power. To improve prediction accuracy, this paper proposes: (i) Joint inference and learning by integration of back-propagation and loss-augmented inference in SSVM subgradient descent; (ii) Extending SSVM factors to neural networks that form highly nonlinear functions of input features. Image segmentation benchmark results demonstrate improvements over conventional SSVM training methods in terms of accuracy, highlighting the feasibility of end-to-end SSVM training with neural factors.
We study the applicability of a set of texture descriptors introduced in recent work by the author to texture-based segmentation of images. The texture descriptors under investigation result from applying graph indices from quantitative graph theory to graphs encoding the local structure of images. The underlying graphs arise from the computation of morphological amoebas as structuring elements for adaptive morphology, either as weighted or unweighted Dijkstra search trees or as edge-weighted pixel graphs within structuring elements. In the present paper we focus on texture descriptors in which the graph indices are entropy-based, and use them in a geodesic active contour framework for image segmentation. Experiments on several synthetic and one real-world image are shown to demonstrate texture segmentation by this approach. Forthermore, we undertake an attempt to analyse selected entropy-based texture descriptors with regard to what information about texture they actually encode. Whereas this analysis uses some heuristic assumptions, it indicates that the graph-based texture descriptors are related to fractal dimension measures that have been proven useful in texture analysis.
Image segmentation is the problem of partitioning an image into different subsets, where each subset may have a different characterization in terms of color, intensity, texture, and/or other features. Segmentation is a fundamental component of image processing, and plays a significant role in computer vision, object recognition, and object tracking. Active Contour Models (ACMs) constitute a powerful energy-based minimization framework for image segmentation, which relies on the concept of contour evolution. Starting from an initial guess, the contour is evolved with the aim of approximating better and better the actual object boundary. Handling complex images in an efficient, effective, and robust way is a real challenge, especially in the presence of intensity inhomogeneity, overlap between the foreground/background intensity distributions, objects characterized by many different intensities, and/or additive noise. In this thesis, to deal with these challenges, we propose a number of image segmentation models relying on variational level set methods and specific kinds of neural networks, to handle complex images in both supervised and unsupervised ways. Experimental results demonstrate the high accuracy of the segmentation results, obtained by the proposed models on various benchmark synthetic and real images compared with state-of-the-art active contour models.
Deep structured output learning shows great promise in tasks like semantic image segmentation. We proffer a new, efficient deep structured model learning scheme, in which we show how deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) can be used to estimate the messages in message passing inference for structured prediction with Conditional Random Fields (CRFs). With such CNN message estimators, we obviate the need to learn or evaluate potential functions for message calculation. This confers significant efficiency for learning, since otherwise when performing structured learning for a CRF with CNN potentials it is necessary to undertake expensive inference for every stochastic gradient iteration. The network output dimension for message estimation is the same as the number of classes, in contrast to the network output for general CNN potential functions in CRFs, which is exponential in the order of the potentials. Hence CNN message learning has fewer network parameters and is more scalable for cases that a large number of classes are involved. We apply our method to semantic image segmentation on the PASCAL VOC 2012 dataset. We achieve an intersection-over-union score of 73.4 on its test set, which is the best reported result for methods using the VOC training images alone. This impressive performance demonstrates the effectiveness and usefulness of our CNN message learning method.
In computer vision, image segmentation is always selected as a major research topic by researchers. Due to its vital rule in image processing, there always arises the need of a better image segmentation method. Clustering is an unsupervised study with its application in almost every field of science and engineering. Many researchers used clustering in image segmentation process. But still there requires improvement of such approaches. In this paper, a novel approach for clustering based image segmentation is proposed. Here, we give importance on color space and choose lab for this task. The famous hard clustering algorithm K-means is used, but as its performance is dependent on choosing a proper distance measure, so, we go for cosine distance measure. Then the segmented image is filtered with sobel filter. The filtered image is analyzed with marker watershed algorithm to have the final segmented result of our original image. The MSE and PSNR values are evaluated to observe the performance.
This report provides an overview of the current state of the art deep learning architectures and optimisation techniques, and uses the ADNI hippocampus MRI dataset as an example to compare the effectiveness and efficiency of different convolutional architectures on the task of patch-based 3-dimensional hippocampal segmentation, which is important in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease. We found that a slightly unconventional "stacked 2D" approach provides much better classification performance than simple 2D patches without requiring significantly more computational power. We also examined the popular "tri-planar" approach used in some recently published studies, and found that it provides much better results than the 2D approaches, but also with a moderate increase in computational power requirement. Finally, we evaluated a full 3D convolutional architecture, and found that it provides marginally better results than the tri-planar approach, but at the cost of a very significant increase in computational power requirement.
Current image segmentation techniques usually require that the user tune several parameters in order to obtain maximum segmentation accuracy, a computationally inefficient approach, especially when a large number of images must be processed sequentially in daily practice. The use of evolving fuzzy systems for designing a method that automatically adjusts parameters to segment medical images according to the quality expectation of expert users has been proposed recently (Evolving fuzzy image segmentation EFIS). However, EFIS suffers from a few limitations when used in practice mainly due to some fixed parameters. For instance, EFIS depends on auto-detection of the object of interest for feature calculation, a task that is highly application-dependent. This shortcoming limits the applicability of EFIS, which was proposed with the ultimate goal of offering a generic but adjustable segmentation scheme. In this paper, a new version of EFIS is proposed to overcome these limitations. The new EFIS, called self-configuring EFIS (SC-EFIS), uses available training data to self-estimate the parameters that are fixed in EFIS. As well, the proposed SC-EFIS relies on a feature selection process that does not require auto-detection of an ROI. The proposed SC-EFIS was evaluated using the same segmentation algorithms and the same dataset as for EFIS. The results show that SC-EFIS can provide the same results as EFIS but with a higher level of automation.
Many machine learning tasks can be formulated in terms of predicting structured outputs. In frameworks such as the structured support vector machine (SVM-Struct) and the structured perceptron, discriminative functions are learned by iteratively applying efficient maximum a posteriori (MAP) decoding. However, maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) of probabilistic models over these same structured spaces requires computing partition functions, which is generally intractable. This paper presents a method for learning discrete exponential family models using the Bethe approximation to the MLE. Remarkably, this problem also reduces to iterative (MAP) decoding. This connection emerges by combining the Bethe approximation with a Frank-Wolfe (FW) algorithm on a convex dual objective which circumvents the intractable partition function. The result is a new single loop algorithm MLE-Struct, which is substantially more efficient than previous double-loop methods for approximate maximum likelihood estimation. Our algorithm outperforms existing methods in experiments involving image segmentation, matching problems from vision, and a new dataset of university roommate assignments.
This paper presents a novel selective constraint propagation method for constrained image segmentation. In the literature, many pairwise constraint propagation methods have been developed to exploit pairwise constraints for cluster analysis. However, since most of these methods have a polynomial time complexity, they are not much suitable for segmentation of images even with a moderate size, which is actually equivalent to cluster analysis with a large data size. Considering the local homogeneousness of a natural image, we choose to perform pairwise constraint propagation only over a selected subset of pixels, but not over the whole image. Such a selective constraint propagation problem is then solved by an efficient graph-based learning algorithm. To further speed up our selective constraint propagation, we also discard those less important propagated constraints during graph-based learning. Finally, the selectively propagated constraints are exploited based on $L_1$-minimization for normalized cuts over the whole image. The experimental results demonstrate the promising performance of the proposed method for segmentation with selectively propagated constraints.
Today Bayesian networks are more used in many areas of decision support and image processing. In this way, our proposed approach uses Bayesian Network to modelize the segmented image quality. This quality is calculated on a set of attributes that represent local evaluation measures. The idea is to have these local levels chosen in a way to be intersected into them to keep the overall appearance of segmentation. The approach operates in two phases: the first phase is to make an over-segmentation which gives superpixels card. In the second phase, we model the superpixels by a Bayesian Network. To find the segmented image with the best overall quality we used two approximate inference methods, the first using ICM algorithm which is widely used in Markov Models and a second is a recursive method called algorithm of model decomposition based on max-product algorithm which is very popular in the recent works of image segmentation. For our model, we have shown that the composition of these two algorithms leads to good segmentation performance.
We present highly efficient algorithms for performing forward and backward propagation of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for pixelwise classification on images. For pixelwise classification tasks, such as image segmentation and object detection, surrounding image patches are fed into CNN for predicting the classes of centered pixels via forward propagation and for updating CNN parameters via backward propagation. However, forward and backward propagation was originally designed for whole-image classification. Directly applying it to pixelwise classification in a patch-by-patch scanning manner is extremely inefficient, because surrounding patches of pixels have large overlaps, which lead to a lot of redundant computation. The proposed algorithms eliminate all the redundant computation in convolution and pooling on images by introducing novel d-regularly sparse kernels. It generates exactly the same results as those by patch-by-patch scanning. Convolution and pooling operations with such kernels are able to continuously access memory and can run efficiently on GPUs. A fraction of patches of interest can be chosen from each training image for backward propagation by applying a mask to the error map at the last CNN layer. Its computation complexity is constant with respect to the number of patches sampled from the image. Experiments have shown that our proposed algorithms speed up commonly used patch-by-patch scanning over 1500 times in both forward and backward propagation. The speedup increases with the sizes of images and patches.
Edge detection is a critical component of many vision systems, including object detectors and image segmentation algorithms. Patches of edges exhibit well-known forms of local structure, such as straight lines or T-junctions. In this paper we take advantage of the structure present in local image patches to learn both an accurate and computationally efficient edge detector. We formulate the problem of predicting local edge masks in a structured learning framework applied to random decision forests. Our novel approach to learning decision trees robustly maps the structured labels to a discrete space on which standard information gain measures may be evaluated. The result is an approach that obtains realtime performance that is orders of magnitude faster than many competing state-of-the-art approaches, while also achieving state-of-the-art edge detection results on the BSDS500 Segmentation dataset and NYU Depth dataset. Finally, we show the potential of our approach as a general purpose edge detector by showing our learned edge models generalize well across datasets.
Person re-identification is becoming a hot research for developing both machine learning algorithms and video surveillance applications. The task of person re-identification is to determine which person in a gallery has the same identity to a probe image. This task basically assumes that the subject of the probe image belongs to the gallery, that is, the gallery contains this person. However, in practical applications such as searching a suspect in a video, this assumption is usually not true. In this paper, we consider the open-set person re-identification problem, which includes two sub-tasks, detection and identification. The detection sub-task is to determine the presence of the probe subject in the gallery, and the identification sub-task is to determine which person in the gallery has the same identity as the accepted probe. We present a database collected from a video surveillance setting of 6 cameras, with 200 persons and 7,413 images segmented. Based on this database, we develop a benchmark protocol for evaluating the performance under the open-set person re-identification scenario. Several popular metric learning algorithms for person re-identification have been evaluated as baselines. From the baseline performance, we observe that the open-set person re-identification problem is still largely unresolved, thus further attention and effort is needed.
Accurate delineation of pathological lungs from computed tomography (CT) images remains mostly unsolved because available methods fail to provide a reliable generic solution due to high variability of abnormality appearance. Local descriptor-based classification methods have shown to work well in annotating pathologies; however, these methods are usually computationally intensive which restricts their widespread use in real-time or near-real-time clinical applications. In this paper, we present a novel approach for fast, accurate, reliable segmentation of pathological lungs from CT scans by combining region-based segmentation method with local descriptor classification that is performed on an optimized sampling grid. Our method works in two stages; during stage one, we adapted the fuzzy connectedness (FC) image segmentation algorithm to perform initial lung parenchyma extraction. In the second stage, texture-based local descriptors are utilized to segment abnormal imaging patterns using a near optimal keypoint analysis by employing centroid of supervoxel as grid points. The quantitative results show that our pathological lung segmentation method is fast, robust, and improves on current standards and has potential to enhance the performance of routine clinical tasks.
Recent progress in computational photography has shown that we can acquire near-infrared (NIR) information in addition to the normal visible (RGB) band, with only slight modifications to standard digital cameras. Due to the proximity of the NIR band to visible radiation, NIR images share many properties with visible images. However, as a result of the material dependent reflection in the NIR part of the spectrum, such images reveal different characteristics of the scene. We investigate how to effectively exploit these differences to improve performance on the semantic image segmentation task. Based on a state-of-the-art segmentation framework and a novel manually segmented image database (both indoor and outdoor scenes) that contain 4-channel images (RGB+NIR), we study how to best incorporate the specific characteristics of the NIR response. We show that adding NIR leads to improved performance for classes that correspond to a specific type of material in both outdoor and indoor scenes. We also discuss the results with respect to the physical properties of the NIR response.
Image segmentation and image restoration are two important topics in image processing with great achievements. In this paper, we propose a new multiphase segmentation model by combining image restoration and image segmentation models. Utilizing image restoration aspects, the proposed segmentation model can effectively and robustly tackle high noisy images, blurry images, images with missing pixels, and vector-valued images. In particular, one of the most important segmentation models, the piecewise constant Mumford-Shah model, can be extended easily in this way to segment gray and vector-valued images corrupted for example by noise, blur or missing pixels after coupling a new data fidelity term which comes from image restoration topics. It can be solved efficiently using the alternating minimization algorithm, and we prove the convergence of this algorithm with three variables under mild condition. Experiments on many synthetic and real-world images demonstrate that our method gives better segmentation results in comparison to others state-of-the-art segmentation models especially for blurry images and images with missing pixels values.
A large number of problems in computer vision can be modelled as energy minimization problems in a Markov Random Field (MRF) or Conditional Random Field (CRF) framework. Graph-cuts based $\alpha$-expansion is a standard move-making method to minimize the energy functions with sub-modular pairwise terms. However, certain problems require more complex pairwise terms where the $\alpha$-expansion method is generally not applicable. In this paper, we propose an iterative {\em tiered move making algorithm} which is able to handle general pairwise terms. Each move to the next configuration is based on the current labeling and an optimal tiered move, where each tiered move requires one application of the dynamic programming based tiered labeling method introduced in Felzenszwalb et. al. \cite{tiered_cvpr_felzenszwalbV10}. The algorithm converges to a local minimum for any general pairwise potential, and we give a theoretical analysis of the properties of the algorithm, characterizing the situations in which we can expect good performance. We first evaluate our method on an object-class segmentation problem using the Pascal VOC-11 segmentation dataset where we learn general pairwise terms. Further we evaluate the algorithm on many other benchmark labeling problems such as stereo, image segmentation, image stitching and image denoising. Our method consistently gets better accuracy and energy values than alpha-expansion, loopy belief propagation (LBP), quadratic pseudo-boolean optimization (QPBO), and is competitive with TRWS.
Clustering is an important facet of explorative data mining and finds extensive use in several fields. In this paper, we propose an extension of the classical Fuzzy C-Means clustering algorithm. The proposed algorithm, abbreviated as VFC, adopts a multi-dimensional membership vector for each data point instead of the traditional, scalar membership value defined in the original algorithm. The membership vector for each point is obtained by considering each feature of that point separately and obtaining individual membership values for the same. We also propose an algorithm to efficiently allocate the initial cluster centers close to the actual centers, so as to facilitate rapid convergence. Further, we propose a scheme to achieve crisp clustering using the VFC algorithm. The proposed, novel clustering scheme has been tested on two standard data sets in order to analyze its performance. We also examine the efficacy of the proposed scheme by analyzing its performance on image segmentation examples and comparing it with the classical Fuzzy C-means clustering algorithm.
Energy minimization algorithms, such as graph cuts, enable the computation of the MAP solution under certain probabilistic models such as Markov random fields. However, for many computer vision problems, the MAP solution under the model is not the ground truth solution. In many problem scenarios, the system has access to certain statistics of the ground truth. For instance, in image segmentation, the area and boundary length of the object may be known. In these cases, we want to estimate the most probable solution that is consistent with such statistics, i.e., satisfies certain equality or inequality constraints. The above constrained energy minimization problem is NP-hard in general, and is usually solved using Linear Programming formulations, which relax the integrality constraints. This paper proposes a novel method that finds the discrete optimal solution of such problems by maximizing the corresponding Lagrangian dual. This method can be applied to any constrained energy minimization problem whose unconstrained version is polynomial time solvable, and can handle multiple, equality or inequality, and linear or non-linear constraints. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method on the foreground/background image segmentation problem, and show that it produces impressive segmentation results with less error, and runs more than 20 times faster than the state-of-the-art LP relaxation based approaches.
This report describes the design, implementation, evaluation and original enhancements to the Live-Wire method for 2D and 3D image segmentation. Live-Wire 2D employs a semi-automatic paradigm; the user is asked to select a few boundary points of the object to segment, to steer the process in the right direction, while the result is displayed in real time. In our implementation segmentation is extended to three dimensions by performing this process on a slice-by-slice basis. User's time and involvement is further reduced by allowing him to specify object contours in planes orthogonal to the slices. If these planes are chosen strategically, Live-Wire 3D can perform 2D segmentation in the plane of each slice automatically. This report also proposes two improvements to the original method, path heating and a new graph edge feature function based on variance of path properties along the boundary. We show that these improvements lead up to a 33% reduction in interaction with the user, and improved delineation in presence of strong interfering edges.
In photography, low depth of field (DOF) is an important technique to emphasize the object of interest (OOI) within an image. Thus, low DOF images are widely used in the application area of macro, portrait or sports photography. When viewing a low DOF image, the viewer implicitly concentrates on the regions that are sharper regions of the image and thus segments the image into regions of interest and non regions of interest which has a major impact on the perception of the image. Thus, a robust algorithm for the fully automatic detection of the OOI in low DOF images provides valuable information for subsequent image processing and image retrieval. In this paper we propose a robust and parameterless algorithm for the fully automatic segmentation of low DOF images. We compare our method with three similar methods and show the superior robustness even though our algorithm does not require any parameters to be set by hand. The experiments are conducted on a real world data set with high and low DOF images.
Fuzzy systems concern fundamental methodology to represent and process uncertainty and imprecision in the linguistic information. The fuzzy systems that use fuzzy rules to represent the domain knowledge of the problem are known as Fuzzy Rule Base Systems (FRBS). On the other hand image segmentation and subsequent extraction from a noise-affected background, with the help of various soft computing methods, are relatively new and quite popular due to various reasons. These methods include various Artificial Neural Network (ANN) models (primarily supervised in nature), Genetic Algorithm (GA) based techniques, intensity histogram based methods etc. providing an extraction solution working in unsupervised mode happens to be even more interesting problem. Literature suggests that effort in this respect appears to be quite rudimentary. In the present article, we propose a fuzzy rule guided novel technique that is functional devoid of any external intervention during execution. Experimental results suggest that this approach is an efficient one in comparison to different other techniques extensively addressed in literature. In order to justify the supremacy of performance of our proposed technique in respect of its competitors, we take recourse to effective metrics like Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR).
The problem of segmenting a given image into coherent regions is important in Computer Vision and many industrial applications require segmenting a known object into its components. Examples include identifying individual parts of a component for process control work in a manufacturing plant and identifying parts of a car from a photo for automatic damage detection. Unfortunately most of an object's parts of interest in such applications share the same pixel characteristics, having similar colour and texture. This makes segmenting the object into its components a non-trivial task for conventional image segmentation algorithms. In this paper, we propose a "Model Assisted Segmentation" method to tackle this problem. A 3D model of the object is registered over the given image by optimising a novel gradient based loss function. This registration obtains the full 3D pose from an image of the object. The image can have an arbitrary view of the object and is not limited to a particular set of views. The segmentation is subsequently performed using a level-set based method, using the projected contours of the registered 3D model as initialisation curves. The method is fully automatic and requires no user interaction. Also, the system does not require any prior training. We present our results on photographs of a real car.
We present the first method to handle curvature regularity in region-based image segmentation and inpainting that is independent of initialization. To this end we start from a new formulation of length-based optimization schemes, based on surface continuation constraints, and discuss the connections to existing schemes. The formulation is based on a \emph{cell complex} and considers basic regions and boundary elements. The corresponding optimization problem is cast as an integer linear program. We then show how the method can be extended to include curvature regularity, again cast as an integer linear program. Here, we are considering pairs of boundary elements to reflect curvature. Moreover, a constraint set is derived to ensure that the boundary variables indeed reflect the boundary of the regions described by the region variables. We show that by solving the linear programming relaxation one gets quite close to the global optimum, and that curvature regularity is indeed much better suited in the presence of long and thin objects compared to standard length regularity.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a well-known model organism used to investigate fundamental questions in biology. Motility assays of this small roundworm are designed to study the relationships between genes and behavior. Commonly, motility analysis is used to classify nematode movements and characterize them quantitatively. Over the past years, C. elegans' motility has been studied across a wide range of environments, including crawling on substrates, swimming in fluids, and locomoting through microfluidic substrates. However, each environment often requires customized image processing tools relying on heuristic parameter tuning. In the present study, we propose a novel Multi-Environment Model Estimation (MEME) framework for automated image segmentation that is versatile across various environments. The MEME platform is constructed around the concept of Mixture of Gaussian (MOG) models, where statistical models for both the background environment and the nematode appearance are explicitly learned and used to accurately segment a target nematode. Our method is designed to simplify the burden often imposed on users; here, only a single image which includes a nematode in its environment must be provided for model learning. In addition, our platform enables the extraction of nematode `skeletons' for straightforward motility quantification. We test our algorithm on various locomotive environments and compare performances with an intensity-based thresholding method. Overall, MEME outperforms the threshold-based approach for the overwhelming majority of cases examined. Ultimately, MEME provides researchers with an attractive platform for C. elegans' segmentation and `skeletonizing' across a wide range of motility assays.
The need of sign language is increasing radically especially to hearing impaired community. Only few research groups try to automatically recognize sign language from video, colored gloves and etc. Their approach requires a valid segmentation of the data that is used for training and of the data that is used to be recognized. Recognition of a sign language image sequence is challenging because of the variety of hand shapes and hand motions. Here, this paper proposes to apply a combination of image segmentation with restoration using topological derivatives for achieving high recognition accuracy. Image quality measures are conceded here to differentiate the methods both subjectively as well as objectively. Experiments show that the additional use of the restoration before segmenting the postures significantly improves the correct rate of hand detection, and that the discrete derivatives yields a high rate of discrimination between different static hand postures as well as between hand postures and the scene background. Eventually, the research is to contribute to the implementation of automated sign language recognition system mainly established for the welfare purpose.
Min-cut clustering, based on minimizing one of two heuristic cost-functions proposed by Shi and Malik, has spawned tremendous research, both analytic and algorithmic, in the graph partitioning and image segmentation communities over the last decade. It is however unclear if these heuristics can be derived from a more general principle facilitating generalization to new problem settings. Motivated by an existing graph partitioning framework, we derive relationships between optimizing relevance information, as defined in the Information Bottleneck method, and the regularized cut in a K-partitioned graph. For fast mixing graphs, we show that the cost functions introduced by Shi and Malik can be well approximated as the rate of loss of predictive information about the location of random walkers on the graph. For graphs generated from a stochastic algorithm designed to model community structure, the optimal information theoretic partition and the optimal min-cut partition are shown to be the same with high probability.
We prove the first positive results concerning boundary value problems in the upper half-space of second order parabolic systems only assuming measurability and some transversal regularity in the coefficients of the elliptic part. To do so, we introduce and develop a first order strategy by means of a parabolic Dirac operator at the boundary to obtain, in particular, Green's representation for solutions in natural classes involving square functions and non-tangential maximal functions, well-posedness results with data in $L^2$-Sobolev spaces together with invertibility of layer potentials, and perturbation results. In the way, we solve the Kato square root problem for parabolic operators with coefficients of the elliptic part depending measurably on all variables. The major new challenge, compared to the earlier results by one of us under time and transversally independence of the coefficients, is to handle non-local half-order derivatives in time which are unavoidable in our situation.
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of nanoscale objects in their native conditions and at different temperatures are of critical importance in revealing details of their interactions with ambient environments. Currently available environmental capsules are equipped with thin electron transparent membranes and allow imaging the samples at atmospheric pressure. However these capsules do not provide the temperature control over the sample. Here we developed and tested a thermoelectric cooling / heating setup for available environmental capsules to allow ambient pressure in situ SEM studies over the -15 {\deg}C to 100 {\deg}C temperature range in gaseous, liquid, and frozen environments. The design of the setup also allows correlation of the SEM with optical microscopy and spectroscopy. As a demonstration of the possibilities of the developed approach, we performed real-time in situ microscopy studies of water condensation on a surface of wing scales of Morpho sulkowskyi butterfly. We have found that the initial water nucleation takes place on the top of the scale ridges. These results confirmed earlier discovery of a polarity gradient of the ridges of Morpho butterflies. Our developed thermoelectric cooling / heating setup for available SEM environmental capsules promises to impact diverse needs for in-situ nano-characterization including materials science and catalysis, micro-instrumentation and device reliability, chemistry and biology.
Let A be an arbitrary integral domain of characteristic 0 which is finitely generated over Z. We consider Thue equations $F(x,y)=b$ with unknowns x,y from A and hyper- and superelliptic equations $f(x)=by^m$ with unknowns from A, where the binary form F and the polynomial f have their coefficients in A, where b is a non-zero element from A, and where m is an integer at least 2. Under the necessary finiteness conditions imposed on F,f,m, we give explicit upper bounds for the sizes of x,y in terms of suitable representations for A,F,f,b Our results imply that the solutions of Thue equations and hyper- and superelliptic equations over arbitrary finitely generated domains can be determined effectively in principle. Further, we generalize a theorem of Schinzel and Tijdeman to the effect, that there is an effectively computable constant C such that $f(x)=by^m$ has no solutions in x,y from A with y not 0 or a root of unity if m>C. In our proofs, we use effective results for Thue equations and hyper- and superelliptic equations over number fields and function fields, some effective commutative algebra, and a specialization argument.
We study blow-ups in generalized complex geometry. To that end we introduce the concept of holomorphic ideal, which allows one to define a blow-up in the category of smooth manifolds. We then investigate which generalized complex submanifolds are suitable for blowing up. Two classes naturally appear; generalized Poisson submanifolds and generalized Poisson transversals, submanifolds which look complex, respectively symplectic in transverse directions. We show that generalized Poisson submanifolds carry a canonical holomorphic ideal and give a necessary and sufficient condition for the corresponding blow-up to be generalized complex. For the generalized Poisson transversals we give a normal form for a neighborhood of the submanifold, and use that to define a generalized complex blow-up, which is up to deformation independent of choices.
We present the construction of a dense, quasicrystalline packing of regular tetrahedra with icosahedral symmetry. This quasicrystalline packing was achieved through two independent approaches. The first approach originates in the Elser-Sloane 4D quasicrystal. A 3D slice of the quasicrystal contains a few types of prototiles. An initial structure is obtained by decorating these prototiles with tetrahedra. This initial structure is then modified using the Elser-Sloane quasicrystal itself as a guide. The second approach proceeds by decorating the prolate and oblate rhombohedra in a 3-dimensional Ammann tiling. The resulting quasicrystal has a packing density of 59.783%. We also show a variant of the quasicrystal that has just 10 "plane classes" (compared with the 190 of the original), defined as the total number of distinct orientations of the planes in which the faces of the tetrahedra are contained. This small number of plane classes was achieved by a certain "golden rotation" of the tetrahedra.
Recent decades have seen the discovery of numerous complex materials. At the root of the complexity underlying many of these materials lies a large number of possible contending atomic- and larger-scale configurations and the intricate correlations between their constituents. For a detailed understanding, there is a need for tools that enable the detection of pertinent structures on all spatial and temporal scales. Towards this end, we suggest a new method by invoking ideas from network analysis and information theory. Our method efficiently identifies basic unit cells and topological defects in systems with low disorder and may analyze general amorphous structures to identify candidate natural structures where a clear definition of order is lacking. This general unbiased detection of physical structure does not require a guess as to which of the system properties should be deemed as important and may constitute a natural point of departure for further analysis. The method applies to both static and dynamic systems.
In Science, Reshef et al. (2011) proposed the concept of equitability for measures of dependence between two random variables. To this end, they proposed a novel measure, the maximal information coefficient (MIC). Recently a PNAS paper (Kinney and Atwal, 2014) gave a mathematical definition for equitability. They proved that MIC in fact is not equitable, while a fundamental information theoretic measure, the mutual information (MI), is self-equitable. In this paper, we show that MI also does not correctly reflect the proportion of deterministic signals hidden in noisy data. We propose a new equitability definition based on this scenario. The copula correlation (Ccor), based on the L1-distance of copula density, is shown to be equitable under both definitions. We also prove theoretically that Ccor is much easier to estimate than MI. Numerical studies illustrate the properties of the measures.
In this paper, we develop a loop group description of harmonic maps $\mathcal{F}: M \rightarrow G/K$ ``of finite uniton type", from a Riemann surface $M$ into inner symmetric spaces of compact or non-compact type. This develops work of Uhlenbeck, Segal, and Burstall-Guest to non-compact inner symmetric spaces. To be more concrete, we prove that every harmonic map of finite uniton type from any Riemann surface into any compact or non-compact inner symmetric space has a normalized potential taking values in some nilpotent Lie subalgebra, as well as a normalized frame with initial condition identity. This provides a straightforward way to construct all such harmonic maps. We also illustrate the above results exclusively by Willmore surfaces, since this problem is motivated by the study of Willmore two-spheres in spheres.
We present a new calculation of neutrino emissivities and energy spectra from a massive star going through the advanced stages of nuclear burning (presupernova) in the months before becoming a supernova. The contributions from beta decay and electron capture, pair annihilation, plasmon decay, and the photoneutrino process are modeled in detail, using updated tabulated nuclear rates. We also use realistic conditions of temperature, density, electron fraction and nuclear isotopic composition of the star from the state of the art stellar evolution code MESA. Results are presented for a set of progenitor stars with mass between 15 $M_\odot$ and 30 $M_\odot$. It is found that beta processes contribute substantially to the neutrino emissivity above realistic detection thresholds of few MeV, at selected positions and times in the evolution of the star.
Functional integrals can be defined on topological groups in terms of families of locally compact topological groups and their associated Banach-valued Haar integrals. The definition forgoes the goal of constructing a genuine measure on a space of functions, and instead provides for a topological realization of localization in the infinite-dimensional domain. This yields measurable subspaces that characterize meaningful functional integrals and a scheme that possesses significant potential for representing non-commutative Banach algebras suitable for mathematical physics applications. The framework includes, within a broader structure, other successful approaches to define functional integrals in restricted cases, and it suggests new and potentially useful functional integrals that go beyond the standard Gaussian case. In particular, functional integrals based on skew-Hermitian and K\"{a}hler quadratic forms are defined and developed. Also defined are gamma-type and Poisson-type functional integrals based on linear forms suggested by the gamma probability distribution. These are expected to play an important role in generating $C^\ast$-algebras of quantum systems. Several applications and implications are presented.
The upgrades of the Belle experiment and the KEKB accelerator aim to increase the data set of the experiment by the factor 50. This will be achieved by increasing the luminosity of the accelerator which requires a significant upgrade of the detector. A new pixel detector based on DEPFET technology will be installed to handle the increased reaction rate and provide better vertex resolution. One of the features of the DEPFET detector is a long integration time of 20 {\mu}s, which increases detector occupancy up to 3 %. The detector will generate about 2 GB/s of data. An FPGA-based two-level read-out system, the Data Handling Hybrid, was developed for the Belle 2 pixel detector. The system consists of 40 read-out and 8 controller modules. All modules are built in {\mu}TCA form factor using Xilinx Virtex-6 FPGA and can utilize up to 4 GB DDR3 RAM. The system was successfully tested in the beam test at DESY in January 2014. The functionality and the architecture of the Belle 2 Data Handling Hybrid system as well as the performance of the system during the beam test are presented in the paper.
We develop a system for measurements of power spectra of transmitted light intensity fluctuations, in which the extraneous noise, including shot noise, is reduced. In essence, we just apply light, measure the power of the transmitted light and derive its power spectrum. We use this to observe the spontaneous noise spectra of photon atom interactions. Applying light with frequency modulation, we can also observe the spontaneous noise reflecting the coherence between the hyperfine levels in the excited state. There are two in novel components in the measurement system, the noise reduction scheme and the stabilization of the laser system. The noise reduction mechanism can be used to reduce the shot noise contribution to arbitrarily low levels through averaging, in principle. This is combined with differential detection to keep unwanted noise at low levels. The laser system is stabilized to obtain spectral width below 1\,kHz without high frequency ($\gtrsim10\,$MHz) noise. These methods are described systematically and the performance of the asurement system is examined through experimental results.
Experimental data were used to support a new concept of osmotic force and a new osmotic law that can explain the osmotic process without the difficulties encountered with van't Hoff osmotic pressure theory. Derived new osmotic formula with curvilinear equation (via new osmotic law) overcomes the limitations and incompleteness of van't Hoff (linear) osmotic pressure equation, $\pi=(n/v)RT$, (for ideal dilute solution only). The application of this classical theory often resulted in contradiction regardless of miscellaneous explaining efforts. This is due to the lack of a scientific concept like "osmotic force" that we believe can elaborate the osmotic process. Via this new concept, the proposed new osmotic law and derived new osmotic pressure equation will greatly complete and improve the theoretical consistency within the scientific framework of osmosis.
Intense ultrashort pulse lasers are used for fs resolution pumpprobe experiments more and more at large scale facilities, such as free electron lasers (FEL). Measurement of the arrival time of the laser pulses and stabilization to the machine or other sub-systems on the target, is crucial for high time-resolution measurements. In this work we report on a single shot, spectrally resolved, non-collinear cross-correlator with sub-fs resolution. With a feedback applied we keep the output of the TW class Ti:sapphire amplifier chain in time with the seed oscillator to ~3 fs RMS level for several hours. This is well below the typical pulse duration used at FELs and supports fs resolution pump-probe experiments. Short term jitter and long term timing drift measurements are presented. Applicability to other wavelengths and integration into the timing infrastructure of the FEL are also covered to show the full potential of the device.
The problem of multiple sensors simultaneously acquiring measurements of a single object can be found in many applications. In this paper, we present the optimal recovery guarantees for the recovery of compressible signals from multi-sensor measurements using compressed sensing. In the first half of the paper, we present both uniform and nonuniform recovery guarantees for the conventional sparse signal model in a so-called distinct sensing scenario. In the second half, using the so-called sparse and distributed signal model, we present nonuniform recovery guarantees which effectively broaden the class of sensing scenarios for which optimal recovery is possible, including to the so-called identical sampling scenario. To verify our recovery guarantees we provide several numerical results including phase transition curves and numerically-computed bounds.
Timed systems, such as timed automata, are usually analyzed using their operational semantics on timed words. The classical region abstraction for timed automata reduces them to (untimed) finite state automata with the same time-abstract properties, such as state reachability. We propose a new technique to analyze such timed systems using finite tree automata instead of finite word automata. The main idea is to consider timed behaviors as graphs with matching edges capturing timing constraints. When a family of graphs has bounded tree-width, they can be interpreted in trees and MSO-definable properties of such graphs can be checked using tree automata. The technique is quite general and applies to many timed systems. In this paper, as an example, we develop the technique on timed pushdown systems, which have recently received considerable attention. Further, we also demonstrate how we can use it on timed automata and timed multi-stack pushdown systems (with boundedness restrictions).
In classical logic, "P implies Q" is equivalent to "not-P or Q". It is well known that the equivalence is problematic. Actually, from "P implies Q", "not-P or Q" can be inferred ("Implication-to-disjunction" is valid), while from "not-P or Q", "P implies Q" cannot be inferred in general ("Disjunction-to-implication" is not valid), so the equivalence between them is invalid. This work aims to remove exactly the incorrect Disjunction-to-implication from classical logic (CL). The paper proposes a logical system (IRL), which has the properties (1) adding Disjunction-to-implication to IRL is simply CL, and (2) Disjunction-to-implication is independent of IRL, i.e. either Disjunction-to-implication or its negation cannot be derived in IRL. In other words, IRL is just the sub-system of CL with Disjunction-to-implication being exactly removed.
A right ideal (left ideal, two-sided ideal) is a non-empty language $L$ over an alphabet $\Sigma$ such that $L=L\Sigma^*$ ($L=\Sigma^*L$, $L=\Sigma^*L\Sigma^*$). Let $k=3$ for right ideals, 4 for left ideals and 5 for two-sided ideals. We show that there exist sequences ($L_n \mid n \ge k $) of right, left, and two-sided regular ideals, where $L_n$ has quotient complexity (state complexity) $n$, such that $L_n$ is most complex in its class under the following measures of complexity: the size of the syntactic semigroup, the quotient complexities of the left quotients of $L_n$, the number of atoms (intersections of complemented and uncomplemented left quotients), the quotient complexities of the atoms, and the quotient complexities of reversal, star, product (concatenation), and all binary boolean operations. In that sense, these ideals are "most complex" languages in their classes, or "universal witnesses" to the complexity of the various operations.
Quasi-trees generalize trees in that the unique "path" between two nodes may be infinite and have any countable order type. They are used to define the rank-width of a countable graph in such a way that it is equal to the least upper-bound of the rank-widths of its finite induced subgraphs. Join-trees are the corresponding directed trees. They are useful to define the modular decomposition of a countable graph. We also consider ordered join-trees, that generalize rooted trees equipped with a linear order on the set of sons of each node. We define algebras with finitely many operations that generate (via infinite terms) these generalized trees. We prove that the associated regular objects (those defined by regular terms) are exactly the ones that are the unique models of monadic second-order sentences. These results use and generalize a similar result by W. Thomas for countable linear orders.
In this paper, we analyze the impact of compressed sensing with complex random matrices on Fisher information and the Cram\'{e}r-Rao Bound (CRB) for estimating unknown parameters in the mean value function of a complex multivariate normal distribution. We consider the class of random compression matrices whose distribution is right-orthogonally invariant. The compression matrix whose elements are i.i.d. standard normal random variables is one such matrix. We show that for all such compression matrices, the Fisher information matrix has a complex matrix beta distribution. We also derive the distribution of CRB. These distributions can be used to quantify the loss in CRB as a function of the Fisher information of the non-compressed data. In our numerical examples, we consider a direction of arrival estimation problem and discuss the use of these distributions as guidelines for choosing compression ratios based on the resulting loss in CRB.
Reactive Turing machines extend classical Turing machines with a facility to model observable interactive behaviour. We call a behaviour (finitely) executable if, and only if, it is equivalent to the behaviour of a (finite) reactive Turing machine. In this paper, we study the relationship between executable behaviour and behaviour that can be specified in the $\pi$-calculus. We establish that every finitely executable behaviour can be specified in the $\pi$-calculus up to divergence-preserving branching bisimilarity. The converse, however, is not true due to (intended) limitations of the model of reactive Turing machines. That is, the $\pi$-calculus allows the specification of behaviour that is not finitely executable up to divergence-preserving branching bisimilarity. We shall prove, however, that if the finiteness requirement on reactive Turing machines and the associated notion of executability is relaxed to orbit-finiteness, then the $\pi$-calculus is executable up to (divergence-insensitive) branching bisimilarity.
Let $G$ be a bridgeless cubic graph. Consider a list of $k$ 1-factors of $G$. Let $E_i$ be the set of edges contained in precisely $i$ members of the $k$ 1-factors. Let $\mu_k(G)$ be the smallest $|E_0|$ over all lists of $k$ 1-factors of $G$. If $G$ is not 3-edge-colorable, then $\mu_3(G) \geq 3$. In [E. Steffen, 1-factor and cycle covers of cubic graphs, J. Graph Theory 78(3) (2015) 195-206] it is shown that if $\mu_3(G) \not = 0$, then $2 \mu_3(G)$ is an upper bound for the girth of $G$. We show that $\mu_3(G)$ bounds the oddness $\omega(G)$ of $G$ as well. We prove that $\omega(G)\leq \frac{2}{3}\mu_3(G)$. If $\mu_3(G) = \frac{2}{3} \mu_3(G)$, then every $\mu_3(G)$-core has a very specific structure. We call these cores Petersen cores. We show that for any given oddness there is a cyclically 4-edge-connected cubic graph $G$ with $\omega(G) = \frac{2}{3}\mu_3(G)$. On the other hand, the difference between $\omega(G)$ and $\frac{2}{3}\mu_3(G)$ can be arbitrarily big. This is true even if we additionally fix the oddness. Furthermore, for every integer $k\geq 3$, there exists a bridgeless cubic graph $G$ such that $\mu_3(G)=k$.
Combings of oriented compact 3-manifolds are homotopy classes of nowhere zero vector fields in these manifolds. A first known invariant of a combing is its Euler class, that is the Euler class of the normal bundle to a combing representative in the tangent bundle of the 3-manifold $M$. It only depends on the Spin$^c$-structure represented by the combing. When this Euler class is a torsion element of $H^2(M;Z)$, we say that the combing is a torsion combing. Gompf introduced a $Q$-valued invariant $\theta_G$ of torsion combings of closed 3-manifolds that distinguishes all combings that represent a given Spin$^c$-structure. This invariant provides a grading of the Heegaard Floer homology $\hat{HF}$ for manifolds equipped with torsion Spin$^c$-structures. We give an alternative definition of the Gompf invariant and we express its variation as a linking number. We also define a similar invariant $p_1$ for combings of manifolds bounded by $S^2$. We show that the $\Theta$-invariant, that is the simplest configuration space integral invariant of rational homology spheres, is naturally an invariant of combings of rational homology balls, that reads $(\frac14p_1 + 6 \lambda)$ where $\lambda$ is the Casson-Walker invariant. The article also includes a mostly self-contained presentation of combings.
The families EPT (resp. EPG) Edge Intersection Graphs of Paths in a tree (resp. in a grid) are well studied graph classes. Recently we introduced the graph classes Edge-Intersecting and Non-Splitting Paths in a Tree ENPT, and in a Grid (ENPG). It was shown that ENPG contains an infinite hierarchy of subclasses that are obtained by restricting the number of bends in the paths. Motivated by this result, in this work we focus on one bend {ENPG} graphs. We show that one bend ENPG graphs are properly included in two bend ENPG graphs. We also show that trees and cycles are one bend ENPG graphs, and characterize the split graphs and co-bipartite graphs that are one bend ENPG. We prove that the recognition problem of one bend ENPG split graphs is NP-complete even in a very restricted subfamily of split graphs. Last we provide a linear time recognition algorithm for one bend ENPG co-bipartite graphs.
Coherence is a crucial requirement to realize quantum manipulation through light-matter interactions. Here we report the observation of anomalously robust valley polarization and valley coherence in bilayer WS2. The polarization of the photoluminescence from bilayer WS2 inherits that of the excitation source with both circularly and linearly polarized and retains even at room temperature. The near unity circular polarization of the luminescence reveals the coupling of spin, layer and valley degree of freedom in bilayer system, while the linear polarized photoluminescence manifests quantum coherence between the two inequivalent band extrema in momentum space, namely, the valley quantum coherence in atomically thin bilayer WS2. This observation opens new perspectives for quantum manipulation in atomically thin semiconductors.
Caffrey, Egge, Michel, Rubin and Ver Steegh recently introduced snow leopard permutations, which are the anti-Baxter permutations that are compatible with the doubly alternating Baxter permutations. Among other things, they showed that these permutations preserve parity, and that the number of snow leopard permutations of length $2n-1$ is the Catalan number $C_n$. In this paper we investigate the permutations that the snow leopard permutations induce on their even and odd entries; we call these the even threads and the odd threads, respectively. We give recursive bijections between these permutations and certain families of Catalan paths. We characterize the odd (resp. even) threads which form the other half of a snow leopard permutation whose even (resp. odd) thread is layered in terms of pattern avoidance, and we give a constructive bijection between the set of permutations of length $n$ which are both even threads and odd threads and the set of peakless Motzkin paths of length $n+1$.
In this work we report results of ferromagnetic resonance studies of a 6% 15 nm (Ga,Mn)As layer, deposited on (001)-oriented GaAs. The measurements were performed with in-plane oriented magnetic field, in the temperature range between 5K and 120K. We observe a temperature induced reorientation of the effective in-plane easy axis from [-110] to [110] direction close to the Curie temperature. The behavior of magnetization is described by anisotropy fields, H_{eff} (= 4\piM -H_{2\perp}), H_{2\parallel}, and H_{4\parallel}. In order to precisely investigate this reorientation, numerical values of anisotropy fields have been determined using powerful - but still largely unknown - interval calculations. In simulation mode this approach makes possible to find all the resonance fields for arbitrarily oriented sample, which is generally intractable analytically. In 'fitting' mode we effectively utilize full experimental information, not only those measurements performed in special, distinguished directions, to reliably estimate the values of important physical parameters as well as their uncertainties and correlations.
We extend the generalised comparison principle for the Monge-Amp\`ere equation due to Rauch & Taylor (Rocky Mountain J. Math. 7, 1977) to nonconvex domains. From the generalised comparison principle we deduce bounds (from above and below) on solutions of the Monge-Amp\`ere equation with sign-changing right-hand side. As a consequence, if the right-hand side is nonpositive (and does not vanish almost everywhere) then the equation equipped with constant boundary condition has no solutions. In particular, due to a connection between the two-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations and the Monge-Amp\`ere equation, the pressure $p$ in 2D Navier-Stokes equations on a bounded domain cannot satisfy $\Delta p \leq 0$ in $\Omega $ unless $\Delta p \equiv 0$ (at any fixed time). As a result at any time $t>0$ there exists $z\in \Omega $ such that $\Delta p (z,t) =0$.
In an analogy with the Galois homothety property for torsion points of abelian varieties that was used in the proof of the Mordell-Lang conjecture, we describe a correspondence between the action of a Galois group and the dynamical action of a rational map. For nonlinear polynomials with rational coefficients, the irreducibility of the associated dynatomic polynomial serves as a convenient criterion, although we also verify that the correspondence occurs in several cases when the dynatomic polynomial is reducible. The work of Morton, Morton-Patel, and Vivaldi-Hatjispyros in the early 1990s connected the irreducibility and Galois-theoretic properties of dynatomic polynomials to rational periodic points; from the Galois-dynamics correspondence, we derive similar consequences for quadratic periodic points of unicritical polynomials. This is sufficient to deduce the non-existence of quadratic periodic points of quadratic polynomials with exact period 5 and 6, outside of a specified finite set from Morton and Krumm's work in explicit Hilbert irreducibility.
Anomaly-mediated supersymmetry breaking (AMSB) is a well-known mechanism for flavor-blind transmission of supersymmetry breaking from the hidden sector to the visible sector. However, the pure AMSB scenario suffers from a serious drawback, namely, the tachyonic slepton problem, and needs to be extended. The so-called (positively) deflected AMSB is a simple extension to solve the problem and also provides us with the usual neutralino lightest superpartner as a good candidate for dark matter in the Universe. Motivated by the recent discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) experiments, we perform the parameter scan in the deflected AMSB scenario by taking into account a variety of phenomenological constraints such as the dark matter relic density and the observed Higgs boson mass around 125-126 GeV. We identify the allowed parameter region and list benchmark mass spectra. We find that in most of the allowed parameter regions, the dark matter neutralino is Higgsino-like and its elastic scattering cross section with nuclei is within the future reach of the direct dark matter search experiments, while (colored) sparticles are quite heavy and their discovery at the LHC is challenging.
Quantum discord quantifies quantum correlation between quantum systems, which has potential application in quantum information processing. In this paper, we propose a scheme realizing the remote transfer of Gaussian quantum discord, in which another quantum discordant state or an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled state serves as ancillary state. The calculation shows that two independent optical modes that without direct interaction become quantum correlated after the transfer. The output Gaussian quantum discord can be higher than the initial Gaussian quantum discord when optimal gain of the classical channel and the ancillary state are chosen. The physical reason for this result comes from the fact that the quantum discord of an asymmetric Gaussian quantum discordant state can be higher than that of a symmetric one. The presented scheme has potential application in quantum information network.
We present a simple and robust construction of a real-time quantum random number generator (QRNG). Our minimalist approach ensures stable operation of the device as well as its simple and straightforward hardware implementation as a stand-alone module. As a source of randomness the device uses measurements of time intervals between clicks of a single-photon detector. The obtained raw sequence is then filtered and processed by a deterministic randomness extractor, which is realized as a look-up table. This enables high speed on-the-fly processing without the need of extensive computations. The overall performance of the device is around 1 random bit per detector click, resulting in 1.2 Mbit/s generation rate in our implementation.
We consider time dependent thermal fluid structure interaction. The respective models are the compressible Navier-Stokes equations and the nonlinear heat equation. A partitioned coupling approach via a Dirichlet-Neumann method and a fixed point iteration is employed. As a refence solver a previously developed efficient time adaptive higher order time integration scheme is used. To improve upon this, we work on reducing the number of fixed point coupling iterations. Thus, first widely used vector extrapolation methods for convergence acceleration of the fixed point iteration are tested. In particular, Aitken relaxation, minimal polynomial extrapolation (MPE) and reduced rank extrapolation (RRE) are considered. Second, we explore the idea of extrapolation based on data given from the time integration and derive such methods for SDIRK2. While the vector extrapolation methods have no beneficial effects, the extrapolation methods allow to reduce the number of fixed point iterations further by up to a factor of two with linear extrapolation performing better than quadratic.
We study the impact of electrode band structure on transport through single-molecule junctions by measuring the conductance of pyridine-based molecules using Ag and Au electrodes. Our experiments are carried out using the scanning tunneling microscope based break-junction technique and are supported by density functional theory based calculations. We find from both experiments and calculations that the coupling of the dominant transport orbital to the metal is stronger for Au-based junctions when compared with Ag-based junctions. We attribute this difference to relativistic effects, which results in an enhanced density of d-states at the Fermi energy for Au compared with Ag. We further show that the alignment of the conducting orbital relative to the Fermi level does not follow the work function difference between two metals and is different for conjugated and saturated systems. We thus demonstrate that the details of the molecular level alignment and electronic coupling in metal-organic interfaces do not follow simple rules, but are rather the consequence of subtle local interactions.
Automata with monitor counters, where the transitions do not depend on counter values, and nested weighted automata are two expressive automata-theoretic frameworks for quantitative properties. For a well-studied and wide class of quantitative functions, we establish that automata with monitor counters and nested weighted automata are equivalent. We study for the first time such quantitative automata under probabilistic semantics. We show that several problems that are undecidable for the classical questions of emptiness and universality become decidable under the probabilistic semantics. We present a complete picture of decidability for such automata, and even an almost-complete picture of computational complexity, for the probabilistic questions we consider.
Solving crystal structures from kinematical X-ray or electron diffraction patterns of single crystals requires many more diffracted beams to be recorded than there are atoms in the structure, since the phases of the structure factors can only be retrieved from such data if the atoms can be resolved as sharply peaked objects. Here a method is presented by which the fact that multiple scattering encodes structure factor phases in the diffracted intensities is being used for solving the crystallographic phase problem. The retrieval of both amplitudes and phases of electron structure factors from diffraction patterns recorded with varying angle of incidence will be demonstrated. No assumption about the scattering potential itself is being made. In particular, the resolution in the diffraction data does not need to be sufficient to resolve atoms, making this method potentially interesting for electron crystallography of 2-dimensional protein crystals and other beam-sensitive complex structures.
We present for the first time a complete solution to the problem of proving the correctness of a concurrency control algorithm for collaborative text editors against the standard consistency model. The success of our approach stems from the use of comprehensive stringwise operational transformations, which appear to have escaped a formal treatment until now. Because these transformations sometimes lead to an increase in the number of operations as they are transformed, we cannot use inductive methods and adopt the novel idea of decreasing diagrams instead. We also base our algorithm on a client-server model rather than a peer-to-peer one, which leads to the correct application of operational transformations to both newly generated and pending operations. And lastly we solve the problem of latency, so that our algorithm works perfectly in practice. The result of these innovations is the first ever formally correct concurrency control algorithm for collaborative text editors together with a fast, fault tolerant and highly scalable implementation.
We investigate the prospects and consequences of the spectral level reconstruction of primordial $B$-mode power by solving the systems of linear equations assuming that the lensing potential together with the lensed polarization spectra are already in hand. We find that this reconstruction technique may be very useful to have an estimate of the amplitude of primordial gravity waves or more specifically the value of tensor to scalar ratio. We also see that one can have cosmic variance limited reconstruction of the intrinsic $B$-mode power up to few hundred multipoles ($\ell\sim500$) which is more than sufficient to have an estimate of the tensor to scalar ratio. Since the small scale cosmic microwave background (CMB henceforth) anisotropies are not sourced by the primordial gravity waves generated during inflation. We also find that the impact of instrumental noise may be bypassed within this reconstruction algorithm. A simple demonstration for the nullification of the instrumental noise anticipating COrE like futuristic space mission complemented with Planck 2013 cosmology has been presented.
Computing problems that handle large amounts of data necessitate the use of lossless data compression for efficient storage and transmission. We present a novel lossless universal data compression algorithm that uses parallel computational units to increase the throughput. The length-$N$ input sequence is partitioned into $B$ blocks. Processing each block independently of the other blocks can accelerate the computation by a factor of $B$, but degrades the compression quality. Instead, our approach is to first estimate the minimum description length (MDL) context tree source underlying the entire input, and then encode each of the $B$ blocks in parallel based on the MDL source. With this two-pass approach, the compression loss incurred by using more parallel units is insignificant. Our algorithm is work-efficient, i.e., its computational complexity is $O(N/B)$. Its redundancy is approximately $B\log(N/B)$ bits above Rissanen's lower bound on universal compression performance, with respect to any context tree source whose maximal depth is at most $\log(N/B)$. We improve the compression by using different quantizers for states of the context tree based on the number of symbols corresponding to those states. Numerical results from a prototype implementation suggest that our algorithm offers a better trade-off between compression and throughput than competing universal data compression algorithms.
This paper studies the coordinated beamforming (CoBF) design for the multiple-input single-output interference channel, provided that only channel distribution information is known to the transmitters. The problem under consideration is a probabilistically constrained optimization problem which maximizes a predefined system utility subject to constraints on rate outage probability and power budget of each transmitter. Our recent analysis has shown that the outage-constrained CoBF problem is intricately difficult, e.g., NP-hard. Therefore, the focus of this paper is on suboptimal but computationally efficient algorithms. Specifically, by leveraging on the block successive upper bound minimization (BSUM) method in optimization, we propose a Gauss-Seidel type algorithm, called distributed BSUM algorithm, which can handle differentiable, monotone and concave system utilities. By exploiting a weighted minimum mean-square error (WMMSE) reformulation, we further propose a Jocobi-type algorithm, called distributed WMMSE algorithm, which can optimize the weighted sum rate utility in a fully parallel manner. To provide a performance benchmark, a relaxed approximation method based on polyblock outer approximation is also proposed. Simulation results show that the proposed algorithms are significantly superior to the existing successive convex approximation method in both performance and computational efficiency, and can yield promising approximation performance.
Many signal processing and machine learning methods share essentially the same linear-in-the-parameter model, with as many parameters as available samples as in kernel-based machines. Sparse approximation is essential in many disciplines, with new challenges emerging in online learning with kernels. To this end, several sparsity measures have been proposed in the literature to quantify sparse dictionaries and constructing relevant ones, the most prolific ones being the distance, the approximation, the coherence and the Babel measures. In this paper, we analyze sparse dictionaries based on these measures. By conducting an eigenvalue analysis, we show that these sparsity measures share many properties, including the linear independence condition and inducing a well-posed optimization problem. Furthermore, we prove that there exists a quasi-isometry between the parameter (i.e., dual) space and the dictionary's induced feature space.
We consider connections between similar sublattices and coincidence site lattices (CSLs), and more generally between similar submodules and coincidence site modules of general (free) $\mathbb{Z}$-modules in $\mathbb{R}^d$. In particular, we generalise results obtained by S. Glied and M. Baake [1,2] on similarity and coincidence isometries of lattices and certain lattice-like modules called $\mathcal{S}$-modules. An important result is that the factor group $\mathrm{OS}(M)/\mathrm{OC}(M)$ is Abelian for arbitrary $\mathbb{Z}$-modules $M$, where $\mathrm{OS}(M)$ and $\mathrm{OC}(M)$ are the groups of similar and coincidence isometries, respectively. In addition, we derive various relations between the indices of CSLs and their corresponding similar sublattices. [1] S. Glied, M. Baake, Similarity versus coincidence rotations of lattices, Z. Krist. 223, 770--772 (2008). DOI: 10.1524/zkri.2008.1054 [2] S. Glied, Similarity and coincidence isometries for modules, Can. Math. Bull. 55, 98--107 (2011). DOI: 10.4153/CMB-2011-076-x
The effects of residual amplitude modulation (RAM) in laser interferometers using heterodyne sensing can be substantial and difficult to mitigate. In this work, we analyze the effects of RAM on a complex laser interferometer used for gravitational wave detection. The RAM introduces unwanted offsets in the cavity length signals and thereby shifts the operating point of the optical cavities from the nominal point via feedback control. This shift causes variations in the sensing matrix, and leads to degradation in the performance of the precision noise subtraction scheme of the multiple-degree-of-freedom control system. In addition, such detuned optical cavities produce an opto-mechanical spring, which also varies the sensing matrix. We use our simulations to derive requirements on RAM for the Advanced LIGO detectors, and show that the RAM expected in Advanced LIGO will not limit its sensitivity.
The 355 optically polarized QSOs have redshifts from 0.061 to 3.94 and are spread out over the sky except for a 60 degree band centered on the Galactic Equator. The data we analyze was measured, collected and published by others. Here, we apply tests suitable for large-scale samples and find that the polarization directions align with a significance of p = 1% by one test and are correlated by a second test with p = 5%, each p-value uncertain within a factor of about 2. The tests return a preferred Cartesian coordinate system that fortuitously aligns well with the Milky Way Galaxy with a significance of p = 3%. Thus, the Hub Tests' results combined together imply the polarization directions are correlated with a significance that is much less than 1%, which is remarkable for such a large-scale sample.
We propose a general framework to build certified proofs of distributed self-stabilizing algorithms with the proof assistant Coq. We first define in Coq the locally shared memory model with composite atomicity, the most commonly used model in the self-stabilizing area. We then validate our framework by certifying a non trivial part of an existing silent self-stabilizing algorithm which builds a $k$-clustering of the network. We also certify a quantitative property related to the output of this algorithm. Precisely, we show that the computed $k$-clustering contains at most $\lfloor \frac{n-1}{k+1} \rfloor + 1$ clusterheads, where $n$ is the number of nodes in the network. To obtain these results, we also developed a library which contains general tools related to potential functions and cardinality of sets.
An irreversible $k$-threshold process (also a $k$-neighbor bootstrap percolation) is a dynamic process on a graph where vertices change color from white to black if they have at least $k$ black neighbors. An irreversible $k$-conversion set of a graph $G$ is a subset $S$ of vertices of $G$ such that the irreversible $k$-threshold process starting with $S$ black eventually changes all vertices of $G$ to black. We show that deciding the existence of an irreversible 2-conversion set of a given size is NP-complete, even for graphs of maximum degree 4, which answers a question of Dreyer and Roberts. Conversely, we show that for graphs of maximum degree 3, the minimum size of an irreversible 2-conversion set can be computed in polynomial time. Moreover, we find an optimal irreversible 3-conversion set for the toroidal grid, simplifying constructions of Pike and Zou.
There exist many well-established techniques to recover sparse signals from compressed measurements with known performance guarantees in the static case. However, only a few methods have been proposed to tackle the recovery of time-varying signals, and even fewer benefit from a theoretical analysis. In this paper, we study the capacity of the Iterative Soft-Thresholding Algorithm (ISTA) and its continuous-time analogue the Locally Competitive Algorithm (LCA) to perform this tracking in real time. ISTA is a well-known digital solver for static sparse recovery, whose iteration is a first-order discretization of the LCA differential equation. Our analysis shows that the outputs of both algorithms can track a time-varying signal while compressed measurements are streaming, even when no convergence criterion is imposed at each time step. The L2-distance between the target signal and the outputs of both discrete- and continuous-time solvers is shown to decay to a bound that is essentially optimal. Our analyses is supported by simulations on both synthetic and real data.
A single-elimination (SE) tournament is a popular way to select a winner in both sports competitions and in elections. A natural and well-studied question is the tournament fixing problem (TFP): given the set of all pairwise match outcomes, can a tournament organizer rig an SE tournament by adjusting the initial seeding so that their favorite player wins? We prove new sufficient conditions on the pairwise match outcome information and the favorite player, under which there is guaranteed to be a seeding where the player wins the tournament. Our results greatly generalize previous results. We also investigate the relationship between the set of players that can win an SE tournament under some seeding (so called SE winners) and other traditional tournament solutions. In addition, we generalize and strengthen prior work on probabilistic models for generating tournaments. For instance, we show that \emph{every} player in an $n$ player tournament generated by the Condorcet Random Model will be an SE winner even when the noise is as small as possible, $p=\Theta(\ln n/n)$; prior work only had such results for $p\geq \Omega(\sqrt{\ln n/n})$. We also establish new results for significantly more general generative models.
This paper presents a new Bayesian collaborative sparse regression method for linear unmixing of hyperspectral images. Our contribution is twofold; first, we propose a new Bayesian model for structured sparse regression in which the supports of the sparse abundance vectors are a priori spatially correlated across pixels (i.e., materials are spatially organised rather than randomly distributed at a pixel level). This prior information is encoded in the model through a truncated multivariate Ising Markov random field, which also takes into consideration the facts that pixels cannot be empty (i.e, there is at least one material present in each pixel), and that different materials may exhibit different degrees of spatial regularity. Secondly, we propose an advanced Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm to estimate the posterior probabilities that materials are present or absent in each pixel, and, conditionally to the maximum marginal a posteriori configuration of the support, compute the MMSE estimates of the abundance vectors. A remarkable property of this algorithm is that it self-adjusts the values of the parameters of the Markov random field, thus relieving practitioners from setting regularisation parameters by cross-validation. The performance of the proposed methodology is finally demonstrated through a series of experiments with synthetic and real data and comparisons with other algorithms from the literature.
Proper inclusion of van der Waals (vdW) interactions in theoretical simulations based on standard density functional theory (DFT) is crucial to describe the physics and chemistry of systems such as organic and layered materials. Many encouraging approaches have been proposed to combine vdW interactions with standard approximate DFT calculations. Despite many vdW studies, there is no consensus on the reliability of vdW methods. To help further development of vdW methods, we have assessed various vdW functionals through the calculation of structural prop- erties at equilibrium, such as lattice constants, bulk moduli, and cohesive energies, for bulk solids, including alkali, alkali-earth, and transition metals, with BCC, FCC, and diamond structures as the ground state structure. These results provide important information for the vdW-related materials research, which is essential for designing and optimizing materials systems for desired physical and chemical properties.
We investigate weighted Sobolev spaces on metric measure spaces $(X,d,m)$. Denoting by $\rho$ the weight function, we compare the space $W^{1,p}(X,d,\rho m)$ (which always concides with the closure $H^{1,p}(X,d,\rho m)$ of Lipschitz functions) with the weighted Sobolev spaces $W^{1,p}_\rho(X,d,m)$ and $H^{1,p}_\rho(X,d,m)$ defined as in the Euclidean theory of weighted Sobolev spaces. Under mild assumptions on the metric measure structure and on the weight we show that $W^{1,p}(X,d,\rho m)=H^{1,p}_\rho(X,d, m)$. We also adapt results by Muckenhoupt and recent work by Zhikov to the metric measure setting, considering appropriate conditions on $\rho$ that ensure the equality $W^{1,p}_\rho(X,d,m)=H^{1,p}_\rho(X,d,m)$.
Let $k$ a field of characteristic zero. Let $X$ be a smooth, projective, geometrically rational $k$-surface. Let $\mathcal{T}$ be a universal torsor over $X$ with a $k$-point et $\mathcal{T}^c$ a smooth compactification of $\mathcal{T}$. There is an open question: is $\mathcal{T}^c$ $k$-birationally equivalent to a projective space? We know that the unramified cohomology groups of degree 1 and 2 of $\mathcal{T}$ and $\mathcal{T}^c$ are reduced to their constant part. For the analogue of the third cohomology groups, we give a sufficient condition using the Galois structure of the geometrical Picard group of $X$. This enables us to show that $H^{3}_{nr}(\mathcal{T}^{c},\mathbb{Q}/\mathbb{Z}(2))/H^3(k,\mathbb{Q}/\mathbb{Z}(2))$ vanishes if $X$ is a generalised Ch\^atelet surface and that this group is reduced to its $2$-primary part if $X$ is a del Pezzo surface of degree at least 2.
Efficient transport of cold atoms or ions is a subject of increasing concern in many experimental applications reaching from quantum information processing to frequency metrology. For the scalable quantum computer architectures based on the shuttling of individual ions, different transport schemes have been developed, which allow to move single atoms minimizing their energy gain. In this article we discuss the experimental implementation of the transport of a three-dimensional ion cloud in a macroscopic linear radiofrequency (RF) trap. The present work is based on numerical simulations done by molecular dynamics taking into account a realistic experimental environment. The deformation of the trapping potential and the spatial extension of the cloud during transport appears to be the major source of the ion energy gain. The efficiency of transport in terms of transfer probability and ion number is also discussed.
Parker has hypothesised that, in a perfectly ideal environment, complex photospheric motions acting on a continuous magnetic field will result in the formation of tangential discontinuities corresponding to singular currents. We review direct numerical simulations of the problem and find the evidence points to a tendency for thin but finite thickness current layers to form, with thickness exponentially decreasing in time. Given a finite resistivity these layers will eventually become important and cause the dynamical process of energy release. Accordingly, a body of work focusses on evolution under continual boundary driving. The coronal volume evolves into a highly dynamic but statistically steady state where quantities have a temporally and spatially intermittent nature and where the Poynting flux and dissipation are decoupled on short timescales. Although magnetic braiding is found to be a promising coronal heating mechanism much work remains to determine its true viability. Some suggestions for future study are offered.
This paper analyzes the classical linear regression model with measurement errors in all the variables. First, we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for identification of the coefficients. We show that the coefficients are not identified if and only if an independent normally distributed linear combination of regressors can be transferred from the regressors to the errors. Second, we introduce a new estimator for the coefficients using a continuum of moments that are based on second derivatives of the log characteristic function of the observables. In Monte Carlo simulations, the estimator performs well and is robust to the amount of measurement error and number of mismeasured regressors. In an application to firm investment decisions, the estimates are similar to those produced by a generalized method of moments estimator based on third to fifth moments.
We discuss the compatibility of quantum gravity with dynamical matter degrees of freedom. Specifically, we present bounds we obtained in [1] on the allowed number and type of matter fields within asymptotically safe quantum gravity. As a novel result, we show bounds on the allowed number of spin-3/2 (Rarita-Schwinger) fields, e.g., the gravitino. These bounds, obtained within truncated Renormalization Group flows, indicate the compatibility of asymptotic safety with the matter fields of the standard model. Further, they suggest that extensions of the matter content of the standard model are severely restricted in asymptotic safety. This means that searches for new particles at colliders could provide experimental tests for this particular approach to quantum gravity.
We report on synthesis and anisotropic physical properties of URhIn$_{5}$. High quality single crystals were grown in In-flux. The compound undergoes a second order phase transition into an antiferromagnetic state at T$_{\textrm{N}}$ = 98 K. The transition is field independent up to 9 T. An increase of the resistivity $\rho$ with j along the [100], [110] and [001] tetragonal axis indicates a spin-density-wave induced order with the gap opening first along the [001] direction. The magnetic susceptibility $\chi$ = M/H exhibits a strong anisotropy. Above T $=$ 200 K, $\chi$(T) follows Curie-Weiss law with the effective moment of $\mu_{\textrm{eff}}$ = 3.71 $\mu_{\textrm{B}}/$U and the Weiss temperatures of $\theta_{\textrm{P}}^{[100]} = -900$ K and $\theta_{\textrm{P}}^{[001]} = -500$ K for H $\parallel$ [100] and H $\parallel$ [001] respectively. The characteristic Kondo-like temperature for URhIn$_{5}$ yields T$_{\textrm{K}} =$ 125 K.
In the current paper, electrical transport properties of 25 nm thick Nb films sputtered on the photosensitive semiconductor BiOCl were investigated in the temperature range 7.5 K $\leq T \leq$ 8.5 K. The influence of green (532 nm) and red (640 nm) laser excitations on resistive superconducting transitions of the niobium thin films on a silicon glass and BiOCl single crystal substrates were studied. The temperature dependences of the resistivity for Nb are in good agreement with the McMillan model which indicates the strong influence of the inverse proximity effect induced by the interface. The increased influence of the BiOCl/Nb interface under laser excitation corresponds to the raising the ratio of the density of normal to superconductivity carriers in the $T\rightarrow 0$ limit and this observation is in agreement with the photoconductivity study of BiOCl single crystals.
The Ott-Antonsen (OA) ansatz [Chaos 18, 037113 (2008), Chaos 19, 023117 (2009)] has been widely used to describe large systems of coupled phase oscillators. If the coupling is sinusoidal and if the phase dynamics does not depend on the specific oscillator, then the macroscopic behavior of the systems can be fully described by a low-dimensional dynamics. Does the corresponding manifold remain attractive when introducing an intrinsic dependence between an oscillator's phase and its dynamics by additional, oscillator specific parameters? To answer this we extended the OA ansatz and proved that parameter-dependent oscillatory systems converge to the OA manifold given certain conditions. Our proof confirms recent numerical findings that already hinted at this convergence. Furthermore we offer a thorough mathematical underpinning for networks of so-called theta neurons, where the OA ansatz has just been applied. In a final step we extend our proof by allowing for time-dependent and multi-dimensional parameters as well as for network topologies other than global coupling. This renders the OA ansatz an excellent starting point for the analysis of a broad class of realistic settings.
A graph $G$ is almost hypohamiltonian (a.h.) if $G$ is non-hamiltonian, there exists a vertex $w$ in $G$ such that $G - w$ is non-hamiltonian, and $G - v$ is hamiltonian for every vertex $v \ne w$ in $G$. The second author asked in [J. Graph Theory 79 (2015) 63--81] for all orders for which a.h. graphs exist. Here we solve this problem. To this end, we present a specialised algorithm which generates complete sets of a.h. graphs for various orders. Furthermore, we show that the smallest cubic a.h. graphs have order 26. We provide a lower bound for the order of the smallest planar a.h. graph and improve the upper bound for the order of the smallest planar a.h. graph containing a cubic vertex. We also determine the smallest planar a.h. graphs of girth 5, both in the general and cubic case. Finally, we extend a result of Steffen on snarks and improve two bounds on longest paths and longest cycles in polyhedral graphs due to Jooyandeh, McKay, {\"O}sterg{\aa}rd, Pettersson, and the second author.
Let $\sum_{\beta\in\nats^d} F_\beta x^\beta$ be a multivariate power series. For example $\sum F_\beta x^\beta$ could be a generating function for a combinatorial class. Assume that in a neighbourhood of the origin this series represents a nonentire function $F=G/H^p$ where $G$ and $H$ are holomorphic and $p$ is a positive integer. Given a direction $\alpha\in\pnats^d$ for which the asymptotics are controlled by a smooth point of the singular variety $H = 0$, we compute the asymptotics of $F_{n \alpha}$ as $n\to\infty$. We do this via multivariate singularity analysis and give an explicit formula for the full asymptotic expansion. This improves on earlier work of R. Pemantle and the second author and allows for more accurate numerical approximation, as demonstrated by our examples.
By representing a quantum state and its evolution with the majorana stars on the Bloch sphere, the Majorana representation (MR) provide us an intuitive way to study a physical system with SU(2) symmetry. In this work, based on coherent states, we propose a method to establish generalization of MR for a general symmetry. By choosing a generalized coherent state as a reference state, we give a more general MR for both finite and infinite systems and the corresponding star equations are given. Using this method, we study the squeezed vacuum states for three different symmetries, Heisenberg-Weyl, SU(2) and SU(1,1), and express the effect of squeezing parameter on the distribution of stars. Furthermore, we also study the dynamical evolution of stars for an initial coherent state driven by a nonlinear Hamiltonian, and find that at a special time point, the stars are distributed on two orthogonal large circles.
We investigate spin squeezing, quantum entanglement and second order coherence in two coupled, driven, dissipative, nonlinear cavities. We compare these quantum statistical properties for the cavities coupled with either single or two-photon exchange. Solving the quantum optical master equation of the system numerically in the steady state, we calculate the zero-time delay second-order correlation function for the coherence, genuine two-mode entanglement parameter, and an optimal spin squeezing inequality associated with particle entanglement. We identify regimes of distinct quantum statistical character depending on the relative strength of photon-exchange and nonlinearity. Moreover, we examine the effects of weak and strong drives on these quantum statistical regimes.
Advances in reflectarrays and array lenses with electronic beam-forming capabilities are enabling a host of new possibilities for these high-performance, low-cost antenna architectures. This paper reviews enabling technologies and topologies of reconfigurable reflectarray and array lens designs, and surveys a range of experimental implementations and achievements that have been made in this area in recent years. The paper describes the fundamental design approaches employed in realizing reconfigurable designs, and explores advanced capabilities of these nascent architectures, such as multi-band operation, polarization manipulation, frequency agility, and amplification. Finally, the paper concludes by discussing future challenges and possibilities for these antennas.
Hilbert initiated the standpoint in foundations of mathematics. From this standpoint, we allow only a finite number of repetitions of elementary operations when we construct objects and morphisms. When we start from a subset of a Euclidean space. Then we assume that any element of the line has only a finite number of connected components. We call the set tame if the assumption is satisfied, and define a tame morphism in the same way. In this paper we will show that a tame topological manifold is carried by a tame homeomorphism to the interior of a compact piecewise linear manifolds possibly with boundary and such a piecewise linear manifold possibly with boundary is unique up to piecewise linear homeomorphisms in the sense that if two manifolds are such PL manifolds possibly with boundary then they are the same as piecewise linear manifolds. We modify this to Theorem 2 so that argument of model theory works, and we prove it. We also consider the differentiable case.
The $^{24}$Mg($p$, $\alpha$)$^{21}$Na reaction was measured at the Holifield Radioactive Ion Beam Facility at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in order to better constrain spins and parities of energy levels in $^{21}$Na for the astrophysically important $^{17}$F($\alpha, p$)$^{20}$Ne reaction rate calculation. 31 MeV proton beams from the 25-MV tandem accelerator and enriched $^{24}$Mg solid targets were used. Recoiling $^{4}$He particles from the $^{24}$Mg($p$, $\alpha$)$^{21}$Na reaction were detected by a highly segmented silicon detector array which measured the yields of $^{4}$He particles over a range of angles simultaneously. A new level at 6661 $\pm$ 5 keV was observed in the present work. The extracted angular distributions for the first four levels of $^{21}$Na and Distorted Wave Born Approximation (DWBA) calculations were compared to verify and extract angular momentum transfer.
Aperture synthesis techniques are increasingly being employed to provide high angular resolution images in situations where the object of interest is in the near field of the interferometric array. Previous work has showed that an aperture synthesis array can be refocused on an object in the near field of an array, provided that the object is smaller than the effective Fresnel zone size corresponding to the array-object range. We show here that, under paraxial conditions, standard interferometric techniques can be used to image objects which are substantially larger than this limit. We also note that interferometric self-calibration and phase-closure image reconstruction techniques can be used to achieve near-field refocussing without requiring accurate object range information. We use our results to show that the field of view for high-resolution aperture synthesis imaging of geosynchronous satellites from the ground can be considerably larger than the largest satellites in Earth orbit.
Many diffusion MRI researchers, including the Human Connectome Project (HCP), acquire data using multishell (e.g., WU-Minn consortium) and diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI) schemes (e.g., USC-Harvard consortium). However, these data sets are not readily accessible to high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) analysis methods that are popular in connectomics analysis. Here we introduce a scheme conversion approach that transforms multishell and DSI data into their corresponding HARDI representations, thereby empowering HARDI-based analytical methods to make use of data acquired using non-HARDI approaches. This method was evaluated on both phantom and in-vivo human data sets by acquiring multishell, DSI, and HARDI data simultaneously, and comparing the converted HARDI, from non-HARDI methods, with the original HARDI data. Analysis on the phantom shows that the converted HARDI from DSI and multishell data strongly predicts the original HARDI (correlation coefficient > 0.9). Our in-vivo study shows that the converted HARDI can be reconstructed by constrained spherical deconvolution, and the fiber orientation distributions are consistent with those from the original HARDI. We further illustrate that our scheme conversion method can be applied to HCP data, and the converted HARDI do not appear to sacrifice angular resolution. Thus this novel approach can benefit all HARDI-based analysis approaches, allowing greater analytical accessibility to non-HARDI data, including data from the HCP.
The GRavitational lEnsing Accuracy Testing 3 (GREAT3) challenge is the third in a series of image analysis challenges, with a goal of testing and facilitating the development of methods for analyzing astronomical images that will be used to measure weak gravitational lensing. This measurement requires extremely precise estimation of very small galaxy shape distortions, in the presence of far larger intrinsic galaxy shapes and distortions due to the blurring kernel caused by the atmosphere, telescope optics, and instrumental effects. The GREAT3 challenge is posed to the astronomy, machine learning, and statistics communities, and includes tests of three specific effects that are of immediate relevance to upcoming weak lensing surveys, two of which have never been tested in a community challenge before. These effects include realistically complex galaxy models based on high-resolution imaging from space; spatially varying, physically-motivated blurring kernel; and combination of multiple different exposures. To facilitate entry by people new to the field, and for use as a diagnostic tool, the simulation software for the challenge is publicly available, though the exact parameters used for the challenge are blinded. Sample scripts to analyze the challenge data using existing methods will also be provided. See http://great3challenge.info and http://great3.projects.phys.ucl.ac.uk/leaderboard/ for more information.
Let $A$ be an integral domain with quotient field $K$ of characteristic $0$ that is finitely generated as a $\mathbb{Z}$-algebra. Denote by $D(F)$ the discriminant of a polynomial $F\in A[X]$. Further, given a finite etale algebra $\Omega$, we denote by $D_{\Omega/K}(\alpha )$ the discriminant of $\alpha$ over $K$. For non-zero $\delta\in A$, we consider equations \[ D(F)=\delta \] to be solved in monic polynomials $F\in A[X]$ of given degree $n\geq 2$ having their zeros in a given finite extension field $G$ of $K$, and \[ D_{\Omega/K}(\alpha)=\delta\,\,\mbox{ in } \alpha\in O, \] where $O$ is an $A$-order of $\Omega$, i.e., a subring of the integral closure of $A$ in $\Omega$ that contains $A$ as well as a $K$-basis of $\Omega$. In our book ``Discriminant Equations in Diophantine Number Theory, which will be published by Cambridge University Press we proved that if $A$ is effectively given in a well-defined sense and integrally closed, then up to natural notions of equivalence the above equations have only finitely many solutions, and that moreover, a full system of representatives for the equivalence classes can be determined effectively. In the present paper, we extend these results to integral domains $A$ that are not necessarily integrally closed.
The exchange graph of a cluster algebra encodes the combinatorics of mutations of clusters. Through the recent "categorifications" of cluster algebras using representation theory one obtains a whole variety of exchange graphs associated with objects such as a finite-dimensional algebra or a differential graded algebra concentrated in non-positive degrees. These constructions often come from variations of the concept of tilting, the vertices of the exchange graph being torsion pairs, t-structures, silting objects, support $\tau$-tilting modules and so on. All these exchange graphs stemming from representation theory have the additional feature that they are the Hasse quiver of a partial order which is naturally defined for the objects. In this sense, the exchange graphs studied in this article can be considered as a generalization or as a completion of the poset of tilting modules which has been studied by Happel and Unger. The goal of this article is to axiomatize the thus obtained structure of an ordered exchange graph, to present the various constructions of ordered exchange graphs and to relate them among each other.
We show that on graphs with n vertices, the 2-dimensional Weisfeiler-Leman algorithm requires at most O(n^2/log(n)) iterations to reach stabilization. This in particular shows that the previously best, trivial upper bound of O(n^2) is asymptotically not tight. In the logic setting, this translates to the statement that if two graphs of size n can be distinguished by a formula in first-order logic with counting with 3 variables (i.e., in C3), then they can also be distinguished by a C3-formula that has quantifier depth at most O(n^2/log(n)). To prove the result we define a game between two players that enables us to decouple the causal dependencies between the processes happening simultaneously over several iterations of the algorithm. This allows us to treat large color classes and small color classes separately. As part of our proof we show that for graphs with bounded color class size, the number of iterations until stabilization is at most linear in the number of vertices. This also yields a corresponding statement in first-order logic with counting. Similar results can be obtained for the respective logic without counting quantifiers, i.e., for the logic L3.
Strategy improvement is a widely-used and well-studied class of algorithms for solving graph-based infinite games. These algorithms are parameterized by a switching rule, and one of the most natural rules is "all switches" which switches as many edges as possible in each iteration. Continuing a recent line of work, we study all-switches strategy improvement from the perspective of computational complexity. We consider two natural decision problems, both of which have as input a game $G$, a starting strategy $s$, and an edge $e$. The problems are: 1.) The edge switch problem, namely, is the edge $e$ ever switched by all-switches strategy improvement when it is started from $s$ on game $G$? 2.) The optimal strategy problem, namely, is the edge $e$ used in the final strategy that is found by strategy improvement when it is started from $s$ on game $G$? We show $\mathtt{PSPACE}$-completeness of the edge switch problem and optimal strategy problem for the following settings: Parity games with the discrete strategy improvement algorithm of V\"oge and Jurdzi\'nski; mean-payoff games with the gain-bias algorithm [14,37]; and discounted-payoff games and simple stochastic games with their standard strategy improvement algorithms. We also show $\mathtt{PSPACE}$-completeness of an analogous problem to edge switch for the bottom-antipodal algorithm for finding the sink of an Acyclic Unique Sink Orientation on a cube.
Let $R$ be an artin algebra and $\mathcal{C}$ an additive subcategory of $\operatorname{mod}(R)$. We construct a $t$-structure on the homotopy category $\operatorname{K}^{-}(\mathcal{C})$ whose heart $\mathcal{H}_{\mathcal{C}}$ is a natural domain for higher Auslander-Reiten (AR) theory. The abelian categories $\mathcal{H}_{\operatorname{mod}(R)}$ (which is the natural domain for classical AR theory) and $\mathcal{H}_{\mathcal{C}}$ interact via various functors. If $\mathcal{C}$ is functorially finite then $\mathcal{H}_{\mathcal{C}}$ is a quotient category of $\mathcal{H}_{\operatorname{mod}(R)}$. We illustrate the theory with two examples: Iyama developed a higher AR theory when $\mathcal{C}$ is a maximal $n$-orthogonal subcategory, see \cite{I}. In this case we show that the simple objects of $\mathcal{H}_{\mathcal{C}}$ correspond to Iyama's higher AR sequences and derive his higher AR duality from the existence of a Serre functor on the derived category $\operatorname{D}^b(\mathcal{H}_{\mathcal{C}})$. The category $\mathcal{O}$ of a complex semi-simple Lie algebra $\mathfrak{g}$ fits into higher AR theory by considering $R$ to be the coinvariant algebra of the Weyl group of $\mathfrak{g}$.
In this paper, we briefly review most of accomplished research in Riemann Zeta function and Riemann hypothesis since Riemann's age including Riemann hypothesis equivalences as well. We then make use of Robin and Lagarias' criteria to prove Riemann hypothesis. The goal is, using Lagarias criterion for $n\geq 1$ since Lagarias criterion states that Riemann hypothesis holds if and only if the inequality $\sum_{d|n}d\leq H_{n}+\exp(H_{n})\log(H_{n})$ holds for all $n\geq 1$. Although, Robin's criterion is used as well. Our approach breaks up the set of the natural numbers into three main subsets. The first subset is $\{n\in \mathbb{N}| ~ 1\leq n\leq 5040\}$. The second one is $\{n\in \mathbb{N}| ~ 5041\leq n\leq 19685\}$ and the third one is $\{n\in \mathbb{N}| ~ n\geq 19686\}$. In our proof, the third subset for even integers is broken up into odd integer class number sets. Then, mathematical arguments are stated for each odd integer class number set. Odd integer class number set is introduced in this paper. Since the Lagarias criterion holds for the first subset regarding computer aided computations, we do prove it using both Lagarias and Robin's criteria for the second and third subsets and mathematical arguments accompanied by a large volume of computer language programs. It then follows that Riemann hypothesis holds as well.
Spin-conserving and spin-flip opaque reflections of electrons from a potential barrier in heterostructures are described. An electric field of the barrier is considered to be the only source of energy spin splitting in the presence of spin-orbit interaction and its form is calculated in the three-level {\kp} model for a nontrival case of unbound electrons. Reflection angles and amplitudes are calculated for oblique incoming directions. It is shown that the system can serve as a source or filter of spin-polarized electron beams. Two unexpected possibilities are pointed out: a) non attenuated electron propagation in the barrier whose height exceeds the energies of incoming electrons, b) total reflection of electrons whose energies exceed barrier's height.
The main idea of this challenging research is to revisit the solar-centric dynamics of Earth around the Sun in analysis of its position on 13 April 2029 close to asteroid Apophis which is supposed to be moving in fly-by near the Earth on its orbit. As of now, we can be sure that trajectory of Apophis is well-known with respect to the center of Sun. Also, NASA experts calculated that relative distance between center of Earth and Apophis should be less than 38 thousands of kilometers during closest Apophis approach to the Earth. But the reasonable question is: will the center of Earth be at the predicted position at the beginning of April 2029? The matter is that NASA solving procedure disregards influence of Milankovich cycles to the orbit of Earth but alternative concept suggests another solution (with additional quasi-periodic deviation from their solution, proportional to square of eccentricity of Earth orbit around the Sun equals to ~ 0.017). So, possible perturbation of Earth orbit is likely to be proportional to (0.017)$^2$ ~ 0.03% from 1 a.e. or ~ 43 200 km which could be compared with gap between Earth and Apophis during closest Apophis approach to Earth in April 2029.
In this survey we give an overview of recent developments on the Quantitative Subspace Theorem. In particular, we discuss a new upper bound for the number of subspaces containing the "large" solutions, obtained jointly with Roberto Ferretti, and sketch the proof of the latter. Further, we prove a new gap principle to handle the "small" solutions in the system of inequalities considered in the Subspace Theorem. Finally, we go into the refinement of the Subspace Theorem by Faltings and Wuestholz, which states that the system of inequalities considered has only finitely many solutions outside some effectively determinable proper linear subspace of the ambient solution space. Estimating the number of these solutions is still an open problem. We give some motivation that this problem is very hard.
It has been challenging to find ways to educate people to have better environmental consciousness. In some cases, people do not know what the right behaviors are to protect the environment. Game engine has been used in the AEC industry for visualization. However, it has barely been used in environmental consciousness education, for example, what operation can reduce building energy consumption, what items are recyclables. As social psychology studies show that video game can influence human behavior, a good designed game should provide the game player with right incentives and guide the users to make wiser choices for better environmental protection. This paper discussed a method to use serious game engines to educate the players the right actions that should be taken under in different scenarios. These actions in real life will results in a better environmental protection. The game proposed in this study is for residential home operation. Other scenarios such as restaurant operation, grocery store operations are discussed as expansion of this study. The game players points will be calculated based on their performance on different choices and when they surpass a certain level, different rewards will be gained in order for them to adjust their current living style. The purpose of the game is to raise the environmental consciousness among the game players and educate them the right actions they can make to better protect the environment while they are spending time on games.
We study the lexicographically least infinite $a/b$-power-free word on the alphabet of non-negative integers. Frequently this word is a fixed point of a uniform morphism, or closely related to one. For example, the lexicographically least $7/4$-power-free word is a fixed point of a $50847$-uniform morphism. We identify the structure of the lexicographically least $a/b$-power-free word for three infinite families of rationals $a/b$ as well many "sporadic" rationals that do not seem to belong to general families. To accomplish this, we develop an automated procedure for proving $a/b$-power-freeness for morphisms of a certain form, both for explicit and symbolic rational numbers $a/b$. Finally, we establish a connection to words on a finite alphabet. Namely, the lexicographically least $27/23$-power-free word is in fact a word on the finite alphabet $\{0, 1, 2\}$, and its sequence of letters is $353$-automatic.
We analyze the performance of a linear-equality-constrained least-squares (CLS) algorithm and its relaxed version, called rCLS, that is obtained via the method of weighting. The rCLS algorithm solves an unconstrained least-squares problem that is augmented by incorporating a weighted form of the linear constraints. As a result, unlike the CLS algorithm, the rCLS algorithm is amenable to our approach to performance analysis presented here, which is akin to the energy-conservation-based methodology. Therefore, we initially inspect the convergence properties and evaluate the precision of estimation as well as satisfaction of the constraints for the rCLS algorithm in both mean and mean-square senses. Afterwards, we examine the performance of the CLS algorithm by evaluating the limiting performance of the rCLS algorithm as the relaxation parameter (weight) approaches infinity. Numerical examples verify the accuracy of the theoretical findings.
In this lecture note, we introduce the basic concepts of game theory (GT), a branch of mathematics traditionally studied and applied in the areas of economics, political science, and biology, which has emerged in the last fifteen years as an effective framework for communications, networking, and signal processing (SP). The real catalyzer has been the blooming of all issues related to distributed networks, in which the nodes can be modeled as players in a game competing for system resources. Some relevant notions of GT are introduced by elaborating on a simple application in the context of wireless communications, notably the power control in an interference channel (IC) with two transmitters and two receivers.
Let $\mathscr{N}(b)$ be the set of real numbers which are normal to base $b$. A well-known result of H. Ki and T. Linton is that $\mathscr{N}(b)$ is $\boldsymbol{\Pi}^0_3$-complete. We show that the set $\mathscr{N}(b)$ of reals which preserve $\mathscr{N}(b)$ under addition is also $\boldsymbol{\Pi}^0_3$-complete. We use the characteriztion of $\mathscr{N}(b)$ given by G. Rauzy in terms of an entropy-like quantity called the noise. It follows from our results that no further characteriztion theorems could result in a still better bound on the complexity of $\mathscr{N}(b)$. We compute the exact descriptive complexity of other naturally occurring sets associated with noise. One of these is complete at the $\boldsymbol{\Pi}^0_4$ level. Finally, we get upper and lower bounds on the Hausdorff dimension of the level sets associated with the noise.
In this paper we come back to a problem proposed by F. Hirzebruch in the 1980's, namely whether there exists a configuration of smooth conics in the complex projective plane such that the associated desingularization of the Kummer extension is a ball quotient. We extend our considerations to the so-called $d$-configurations of curves on the projective plane and we show that in most cases for a given configuration the associated desingularization of the Kummer extension is not a ball quotient. Moreover, we provide improved versions of Hirzebruch-type inequality for $d$-configurations. Finally, we show that the so-called characteristic numbers (or $\gamma$ numbers) for $d$-configurations are bounded from above by $8/3$. At the end of the paper we give some examples of surfaces constructed via Kummer extensions branched along conic configurations.
Fix coprime $s,t\ge1$. We re-prove, without Ehrhart reciprocity, a conjecture of Armstrong (recently verified by Johnson) that the finitely many simultaneous $(s,t)$-cores have average size $\frac{1}{24}(s-1)(t-1)(s+t+1)$, and that the subset of self-conjugate cores has the same average (first shown by Chen--Huang--Wang). We similarly prove a recent conjecture of Fayers that the average weighted by an inverse stabilizer---giving the "expected size of the $t$-core of a random $s$-core"---is $\frac{1}{24}(s-1)(t^2-1)$. We also prove Fayers' conjecture that the analogous self-conjugate average is the same if $t$ is odd, but instead $\frac{1}{24}(s-1)(t^2+2)$ if $t$ is even. In principle, our explicit methods---or implicit variants thereof---extend to averages of arbitrary powers. The main new observation is that the stabilizers appearing in Fayers' conjectures have simple formulas in Johnson's $z$-coordinates parameterization of $(s,t)$-cores. We also observe that the $z$-coordinates extend to parameterize general $t$-cores. As an example application with $t := s+d$, we count the number of $(s,s+d,s+2d)$-cores for coprime $s,d\ge1$, verifying a recent conjecture of Amdeberhan and Leven.
The measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol has been proposed for the purpose of removing the detector side channel attacks. Due to the multi-photon events of coherent states sources, real-life implementations of MDI-QKD protocol must employ decoy states to beat the photon-number-splitting attack. Decoy states for MDI-QKD based on the weak coherent states have been studied recently. In this paper, we propose to perform MDI-QKD protocol with modified coherent states (MCS) sources. We simulate the performance of MDI-QKD with the decoy states based on MCS sources. And our simulation indicates that both the secure-key rate and transmission distance can be improved evidently with MCS sources.The physics behind this improvement is that the probability of multi-photon events of the MCS is lower than that of weak coherent states while at the same time the probability of single-photon is higher.
Justification logics are epistemic logics that explicitly include justifications for the agents' knowledge. We develop a multi-agent justification logic with evidence terms for individual agents as well as for common knowledge. We define a Kripke-style semantics that is similar to Fitting's semantics for the Logic of Proofs LP. We show the soundness, completeness, and finite model property of our multi-agent justification logic with respect to this Kripke-style semantics. We demonstrate that our logic is a conservative extension of Yavorskaya's minimal bimodal explicit evidence logic, which is a two-agent version of LP. We discuss the relationship of our logic to the multi-agent modal logic S4 with common knowledge. Finally, we give a brief analysis of the coordinated attack problem in the newly developed language of our logic.
We summarize the global geometric formulation of Einstein-Scalar-Maxwell theories twisted by flat symplectic vector bundle which encodes the duality structure of the theory. We describe the scalar-electromagnetic symmetry group of such models, which consists of flat unbased symplectic automorphisms of the flat symplectic vector bundle lifting those isometries of the scalar manifold which preserve the scalar potential. The Dirac quantization condition for such models involves a local system of integral symplectic spaces, giving rise to a bundle of polarized Abelian varieties equipped with a symplectic flat connection, which is defined over the scalar manifold of the theory. Generalized Einstein-Scalar-Maxwell models arise as the bosonic sector of the effective theory of string/M-theory compactifications to four-dimensions, and they are characterized by having non-trivial solutions of "U-fold" type.
A unified formulation that obtains solitary waves for various background densities in the Bose-Einstein condensate of a system of hard-core bosons with nearest neighbor attractive interactions is presented. In general, two species of solitons appear: A nonpersistent (NP) type that fully delocalizes at its maximum speed, and a persistent (P) type that survives even at its maximum speed, and transforms into a periodic train of solitons above this speed. When the background condensate density is nonzero, both species coexist, the soliton is associated with a constant intrinsic frequency, and its maximum speed is the speed of sound. In contrast, when the background condensate density is zero, the system has neither a fixed frequency, nor a speed of sound. Here, the maximum soliton speed depends on the frequency, which can be tuned to lead to a cross-over between the NP-type and the P-type at a certain critical frequency, determined by the energy parameters of the system. We provide a single functional form for the soliton profile, from which diverse characteristics for various background densities can be obtained. Using the mapping to spin systems enables us to characterize the corresponding class of magnetic solitons in Heisenberg spin chains with different types of anisotropy, in a unified fashion.
In this announcement we consider the following problem. Let $n,m\geq 1$, $U\subset\mathbb R^n$ open. In this paper we provide a sharp solution to the following Whitney distortion extension problems: (a) Let $\phi:U\to \mathbb R^n$ be a $C^m$ map. If $E\subset U$ is compact (with some geometry) and the restriction of $\phi$ to $E$ is an almost isometry with small distortion, how to decide when there exists a $C^m(\mathbb R^n)$ one-to-one and onto almost isometry $\Phi:\mathbb R^n\to \mathbb R^n$ with small distortion which agrees with $\phi$ in a neighborhood of $E$ and a Euclidean motion $A:\mathbb R^n\to \mathbb R^n$ away from $E$. (b) Let $\phi:U\to \mathbb R^n$ be $C^{\infty}$ map. If $E\subset U$ is compact (with some geometry) and the restriction of $\phi$ to $E$ is an almost isometry with small distortion, how to decide when there exists a $C^{\infty}(\mathbb R^n)$ one-to-one and onto almost isometry $\Phi:\mathbb R^n\to \mathbb R^n$ with small distortion which agrees with $\phi$ in a neighborhood of $E$ and a Euclidean motion $A:\mathbb R^n\to \mathbb R^n$ away from $E$. Our results complement those of [14,15,20] where there, $E$ is a finite set. In this case, the problem above is also a problem of interpolation and alignment of data in $\mathbb R^n$.
We consider the Longest Queue Drop memory management policy in shared-memory switches consisting of $N$ output ports. The shared memory of size $M\geq N$ may have an arbitrary number of input ports. Each packet may be admitted by any incoming port, but must be destined to a specific output port and each output port may be used by only one queue. The Longest Queue Drop policy is a natural online strategy used in directing the packet flow in buffering problems. According to this policy and assuming unit packet values and cost of transmission, every incoming packet is accepted, whereas if the shared memory becomes full, one or more packets belonging to the longest queue are preempted, in order to make space for the newly arrived packets. It was proved in 2001 [Hahne et al., SPAA '01] that the Longest Queue Drop policy is 2-competitive and at least $\sqrt{2}$-competitive. It remained an open question whether a (2-\epsilon) upper bound for the competitive ratio of this policy could be shown, for any positive constant \epsilon. We show that the Longest Queue Drop online policy is 1.5-competitive.
We exhibit a sequence of flat polynomials with coefficients $0,1$. We thus get that there exist a sequences of Newman polynomials that are $L^\alpha$-flat, $0 \leq \alpha <2$. This settles an old question of Littlewood. In the opposite direction, we prove that the Newman polynomials are not $L^\alpha$-flat, for $\alpha \geq 4$. We further establish that there is a conservative, ergodic, $\sigma$-finite measure preserving transformation with simple Lebesgue spectrum. This answer affirmatively a long-standing problem of Banach from the Scottish book. Consequently, we obtain a positive answer to Mahler's problem in the class of Newman polynomials, and this allows us also to answer a question raised by Bourgain on the supremum of the $L^1$-norm of $L^2$-normalized idempotent polynomials.
We introduce a new type of boundary for proper geodesic spaces, called the Morse boundary, that is constructed with rays that identify the "hyperbolic directions" in that space. This boundary is a quasi-isometry invariant and thus produces a well-defined boundary for any finitely generated group. In the case of a proper $\mathrm{CAT}(0)$ space this boundary is the contracting boundary of Charney and Sultan and in the case of a proper Gromov hyperbolic space this boundary is the Gromov boundary. We prove three results about the Morse boundary of Teichm\"uller space. First, we show that the Morse boundary of the mapping class group of a surface is homeomorphic to the Morse boundary of the Teichm\"uller space of that surface. Second, using a result of Leininger and Schleimer, we show that Morse boundaries of Teichm\"uller space can contain spheres of arbitrarily high dimension. Finally, we show that there is an injective continuous map of the Morse boundary of Teichm\"uller space into the Thurston compactification of Teichm\"uller space by projective measured foliations. An appendix includes a corrigendum to the paper introducing refined Morse gauges to correct the proof and statement of Lemma 2.10.
Let $k$ be a field, $\tilde{G}$ a connected reductive $k$-group, and $\Gamma$ a finite group. In a previous work, the authors defined what it means for a connected reductive $k$-group $G$ to be "parascopic" for $(\tilde{G},\Gamma)$. Roughly, this is a simultaneous generalization of several settings. For example, $\Gamma$ could act on $\tilde{G}$, and $G$ could be the connected part of the group of $\Gamma$-fixed points in $\tilde{G}$. Or $G$ could be an endoscopic group, a pseudo-Levi subgroup, or an isogenous image of $\tilde{G}$. If $G$ is such a group, and both $\tilde{G}$ and $G$ are $k$-quasisplit, then we constructed a map $\hat{\mathcal{N}}^{\text{st}}$ from the set of stable semisimple conjugacy classes in the dual $G^\wedge(k)$ to the set of such classes in $\tilde{G}^\wedge(k)$. When $k$ is finite, this implies a lifting from packets of representations of $G(k)$ to those of $\tilde{G}(k)$. In order to understand such a lifting better, here we describe two ways in which $\hat{\mathcal{N}}^{\text{st}}$ can be made more explicit. First, we can express our map in the general case in terms of simpler cases. We do so by showing that $\hat{\mathcal{N}}^{\text{st}}$ is compatible with isogenies and with Weil restriction, and also by expressing it as a composition of simpler maps. Second, in many cases we can construct an explicit $k$-morphism $\hat N \colon G^\wedge \longrightarrow \tilde{G}^\wedge$ that agrees with $\hat{\mathcal{N}}^{\text{st}}$. As a consequence, our lifting of representations is seen to coincide with Shintani lifting in some important cases.
This is the abstract. The results of measurements of X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) of a-SiO2-host material after pulsed implantation with [Mn+] and [Co+, Mn+]-ions as well as DFT-calculations are presented. The low-energy shift is found in XPS Si 2p and O 1s core-levels of single [Mn+] and dual [Co+, Mn+] pulsed ion-implanted a-SiO2 (E = 30 keV, D = 2*10^17 cm^-2) with respect to those of untreated a-SiO2.The similar changes are found in XPS Si 2p and O 1s of stishovite compared to those of quartz. This means that the pulsed ion-implantation induces the local high pressure effect which leads to an appearance of SiO6-structural units in alpha-SiO2 host, forming "stishovite-like" local atomic structure. This process can be described within electronic bonding transition from the four-fold "quartz-like" to six-fold "stishovite-like" high-pressure phase in SiO2 host-matrix. It is found that such octahedral conversion depends on the fluence and starts with doses higher than D = 3*10^16 cm^-2.
We analyze the response of the Morris-Lecar model to a periodic train of short current pulses in the period-amplitude plane. For a wide parameter range encompassing both class 2 and class 3 behavior in Hodgkin's classification there is a multimodal transition between the set of odd modes and the set of all modes. It is located between the 2:1 and 3:1 locked-in regions. It is the same dynamic instability as the one discovered earlier in the Hodgkin-Huxley model and observed experimentally in squid giant axons. It appears simultaneously with the bistability of the states 2:1 and 3:1 in the perithreshold regime. These results imply that the multimodal transition may be a universal property of resonant neurons.
A linear function submission-based double-auction (LFS-DA) mechanism for a regional electricity network is proposed in this paper. Each agent in the network is equipped with a battery and a generator. Each agent simultaneously becomes a producer and consumer of electricity, i.e., a prosumer and trades electricity in the regional market at a variable price. In the LFS-DA, each agent uses linear demand and supply functions when they submit bids and asks to an auctioneer in the regional market.The LFS-DA can achieve an exact balance between electricity demand and supply for each time slot throughout the learning phase and was shown capable of solving the primal problem of maximizing the social welfare of the network without any central price setter, e.g., a utility or a large electricity company, in contrast with conventional real-time pricing (RTP). This paper presents a clarification of the relationship between the RTP algorithm derived on the basis of a dual decomposition framework and LFS-DA. Specifically, we proved that the changes in the price profile of the LFS-DA mechanism are equal to those achieved by the RTP mechanism derived from the dual decomposition framework except for a constant factor.
We like to develop model theory for $T$, a complete theory in $\mathbb{L}_{\theta,\theta}(\tau)$ when $\theta$ is a compact cardinal. By [Sh:300a] we have bare bones stability and it seemed we can go no further. Dealing with ultrapowers (and ultraproducts) we restrict ourselves to ``$D$ a $\theta$-complete ultrafilter on $I$, probably $(I,\theta)$-regular". The basic theorems work, but can we generalize deeper parts of model theory? In particular can we generalize stability enough to generalize [Sh:c, Ch.VI]? We prove that at least we can characterize the $T$'s which are minimal under Keisler's order, i.e. such that $\{D:D$ is a regular ultrafilter on $\lambda$ and $M \models T \Rightarrow M^\lambda/D$ is $\lambda$-saturated$\}$. Further we succeed to connect our investigation with the logic $\mathbb{L}^1_{< \theta}$ introduced in [Sh:797]: two models are $\mathbb{L}^1_{< \theta}$-equivalent iff \, for some $\omega$- sequence of$\theta$-complete ultrafilters, the iterated ultra-powers by it of those two models are isomorphic.
Given two labelled Markov decision processes (MDPs), the trace-refinement problem asks whether for all strategies of the first MDP there exists a strategy of the second MDP such that the induced labelled Markov chains are trace-equivalent. We show that this problem is decidable in polynomial time if the second MDP is a Markov chain. The algorithm is based on new results on a particular notion of bisimulation between distributions over the states. However, we show that the general trace-refinement problem is undecidable, even if the first MDP is a Markov chain. Decidability of those problems was stated as open in 2008. We further study the decidability and complexity of the trace-refinement problem provided that the strategies are restricted to be memoryless.
Let $S_n$ denote the symmetric group. For any $\sigma \in S_n$, we let $\mathrm{des}(\sigma)$ denote the number of descents of $\sigma$, $\mathrm{inv}(\sigma)$ denote the number of inversions of $\sigma$, and $\mathrm{LRmin}(\sigma)$ denote the number of left-to-right minima of $\sigma$. For any sequence of statistics $\mathrm{stat}_1, \ldots \mathrm{stat}_k$ on permutations, we say two permutations $\alpha$ and $\beta$ in $S_j$ are $(\mathrm{stat}_1, \ldots \mathrm{stat}_k)$-c-Wilf equivalent if the generating function of $\prod_{i=1}^k x_i^{\mathrm{stat}_i}$ over all permutations which have no consecutive occurrences of $\alpha$ equals the generating function of $\prod_{i=1}^k x_i^{\mathrm{stat}_i}$ over all permutations which have no consecutive occurrences of $\beta$. We give many examples of pairs of permutations $\alpha$ and $\beta$ in $S_j$ which are $\mathrm{des}$-c-Wilf equivalent, $(\mathrm{des},\mathrm{inv})$-c-Wilf equivalent, and $(\mathrm{des},\mathrm{inv},\mathrm{LRmin})$-c-Wilf equivalent. For example, we will show that if $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are minimally overlapping permutations in $S_j$ which start with 1 and end with the same element and $\mathrm{des}(\alpha) = \mathrm{des}(\beta)$ and $\mathrm{inv}(\alpha) = \mathrm{inv}(\beta)$, then $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are $(\mathrm{des},\mathrm{inv})$-c-Wilf equivalent.
This paper presents a variational based approach to fusing hyperspectral and multispectral images. The fusion process is formulated as an inverse problem whose solution is the target image assumed to live in a much lower dimensional subspace. A sparse regularization term is carefully designed, relying on a decomposition of the scene on a set of dictionaries. The dictionary atoms and the corresponding supports of active coding coefficients are learned from the observed images. Then, conditionally on these dictionaries and supports, the fusion problem is solved via alternating optimization with respect to the target image (using the alternating direction method of multipliers) and the coding coefficients. Simulation results demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed algorithm when compared with the state-of-the-art fusion methods.
Notions of simulation, among other uses, provide a computationally tractable and sound (but not necessarily complete) proof method for language inclusion. They have been comprehensively studied by Lynch and Vaandrager for nondeterministic and timed systems; for B\"{u}chi automata the notion of fair simulation has been introduced by Henzinger, Kupferman and Rajamani. We contribute to a generalization of fair simulation in two different directions: one for nondeterministic tree automata previously studied by Bomhard; and the other for probabilistic word automata with finite state spaces, both under the B\"{u}chi acceptance condition. The former nondeterministic definition is formulated in terms of systems of fixed-point equations, hence is readily translated to parity games and is then amenable to Jurdzi\'{n}ski's algorithm; the latter probabilistic definition bears a strong ranking-function flavor. These two different-looking definitions are derived from one source, namely our coalgebraic modeling of B\"{u}chi automata. Based on these coalgebraic observations, we also prove their soundness: a simulation indeed witnesses language inclusion.
Let s_q(n) denote the base q sum of digits function, which for n<x, is centered around (q-1)/2 log_q x. In Drmota, Mauduit and Rivat's 2009 paper, they look at sum of digits of prime numbers, and provide asymptotics for the size of the set {p<x, p prime : s_q(p)=alpha(q-1)log_q x} where alpha lies in a tight range around 1/2. In this paper, we examine the tails of this distribution, and provide the lower bound |{p < x, p prime : s_q(p)>alpha(q-1)log_q x}| >>x^{2(1-alpha)}e^{-c(log x)^{1/2+epsilon}} for 1/2<alpha<0.7375. To attain this lower bound, we note that the multinomial distribution is sharply peaked, and apply results regarding primes in short intervals. This proves that there are infinitely many primes with more than twice as many ones than zeros in their binary expansion.
A gapped repeat (respectively, palindrome) occurring in a word $w$ is a factor $uvu$ (respectively, $u^Rvu$) of $w$. In such a repeat (palindrome) $u$ is called the arm of the repeat (respectively, palindrome), while $v$ is called the gap. We show how to compute efficiently, for every position $i$ of the word $w$, the longest gapped repeat and palindrome occurring at that position, provided that the length of the gap is subject to various types of restrictions. That is, that for each position $i$ we compute the longest prefix $u$ of $w[i..n]$ such that $uv$ (respectively, $u^Rv$) is a suffix of $w[1..i-1]$ (defining thus a gapped repeat $uvu$ -- respectively, palindrome $u^Rvu$), and the length of $v$ is subject to the aforementioned restrictions.
We present a fully relativistic calculation of the observed galaxy number counts in the linear regime. We show that besides the density fluctuations and redshift-space distortions, various relativistic effects contribute to observations at large scales. These effects all have the same physical origin: they result from the fact that our coordinate system, namely the galaxy redshift and the incoming photons' direction, is distorted by inhomogeneities in our universe. We then discuss the impact of the relativistic effects on the angular power spectrum and on the two-point correlation function in configuration space. We show that the latter is very well adapted to isolate the relativistic effects since it naturally makes use of the symmetries of the different contributions. In particular, we discuss how the Doppler effect and the gravitational redshift distortions can be isolated by looking for a dipole in the cross-correlation function between a bright and a faint population of galaxies.
We investigate the computational power and unified resource use of hybrid quantum-classical computations, such as teleportation and measurement-based computing. We introduce a physically causal and local graphical calculus for quantum information theory, which enables high-level intuitive reasoning about quantum information processes. The graphical calculus defines a local information flow in a computation which satisfies conditions for physical causality. We show how quantum and classical processing units can now be formally integrated, and give an analysis of the joint resources used in a typical measurement-based computation. Finally, we discuss how this picture may be used to give a high-level unified model for hybrid quantum computing.
Boolean operations of geometric models is an essential issue in computational geometry. In this paper, we develop a simple and robust approach to perform Boolean operations on closed and open triangulated surfaces. Our method mainly has two stages: (1) We firstly find out candidate intersected-triangles pairs based on Octree and then compute the inter-section lines for all pairs of triangles with parallel algorithm; (2) We form closed or open intersection-loops, sub-surfaces and sub-blocks quite robustly only according to the cleared and updated topology of meshes while without coordinate computations for geometric enti-ties. A novel technique instead of inside/outside classification is also proposed to distinguish the resulting union, subtraction and intersection. Several examples have been given to illus-trate the effectiveness of our approach.
We compute the relative-order-v^4 contribution to gluon fragmentation into quarkonium in the 3S1 color-singlet channel, using the nonrelativistic QCD (NRQCD) factorization approach. The QCD fragmentation process contains infrared divergences that produce single and double poles in epsilon in 4-2epsilon dimensions. We devise subtractions that isolate the pole contributions, which ultimately are absorbed into long-distance NRQCD matrix elements in the NRQCD matching procedure. The matching procedure involves two-loop renormalizations of the NRQCD operators. The subtractions are integrated over the phase space analytically in 4-2epsilon dimensions, and the remainder is integrated over the phase-space numerically. We find that the order-v^4 contribution is enhanced relative to the order-v^0 contribution. However, the order-v^4 contribution is not important numerically at the current level of precision of quarkonium-hadroproduction phenomenology. We also estimate the contribution to hadroproduction from gluon fragmentation into quarkonium in the 3PJ color-octet channel and find that it is significant in comparison to the complete next-to-leading-order-in-alpha_s contribution in that channel.
This document is an introduction to the use of the point-centered quarter method. It briefly outlines its history, its methodology, and some of the practical issues (and modifications) that inevitably arise with its use in the field. Additionally this paper shows how data collected using point-centered quarter method sampling may be used to determine importance values of different species of trees and describes and derives several methods of estimating plant density and corresponding confidence intervals. New to this version is a revision of Appendix D which now includes R Shiny Apps to carry out many of these calculations. References to data sets in the previous version that are no longer publicly available have been removed. These have been replaced with examples and exercises which demonstrate the use of the R Shiny Apps and the earlier R scripts.
In this work, we propose an adaptive spectral element algorithm for solving nonlinear optimal control problems. The method employs orthogonal collocation at the shifted Gegenbauer-Gauss points combined with very accurate and stable numerical quadratures to fully discretize the multiple-phase integral form of the optimal control problem. The proposed algorithm relies on exploiting the underlying smoothness properties of the solutions for computing approximate solutions efficiently. In particular, the method brackets discontinuities and "points of nonsmoothness" through a novel local adaptive algorithm, which achieves a desired accuracy on the discrete dynamical system equations by adjusting both the mesh size and the degree of the approximating polynomials. A rigorous error analysis of the developed numerical quadratures is presented. Finally, the efficiency of the proposed method is demonstrated on three test examples from the open literature.
A polynomial skew product of C^2 is a map of the form f(z,w) = (p(z), q(z,w)), where p and q are polynomials, such that f is regular of degree d >= 2. For polynomial maps of C, hyperbolicity is equivalent to the condition that the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the Julia set; further, critical points either iterate to an attracting cycle or infinity. For polynomial skew products, Jonsson (Math. Ann., 1999) established that f is Axiom A if and only if the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the right analog of the Julia set. Here we present the analogous conclusion: critical orbits either escape to infinity or accumulate on an attracting set. In addition, we construct new examples of Axiom A maps demonstrating various postcritical behaviors.
We build on recent works on Stein's method for functions of multivariate normal random variables to derive bounds for the rate of convergence of some asymptotically chi-square distributed statistics. We obtain some general bounds and establish some simple sufficient conditions for convergence rates of order $n^{-1}$ for smooth test functions. These general bounds are applied to Friedman's statistic for comparing $r$ treatments across $n$ trials and the family of power divergence statistics for goodness-of-fit across $n$ trials and $r$ classifications, with index parameter $\lambda\in\mathbb{R}$ (Pearson's statistic corresponds to $\lambda=1$). We obtain a $O(n^{-1})$ bound for the rate of convergence of Friedman's statistic for any number of treatments $r\geq2$. We also obtain a $O(n^{-1})$ bound on the rate of convergence of the power divergence statistics for any $r\geq2$ when $\lambda$ is a positive integer or any real number greater than 5. We conjecture that the $O(n^{-1})$ rate holds for any $\lambda\in\mathbb{R}$.
It was predicted by Tewari [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 100}, 027001 (2008)] that a teleportationlike electron transfer phenomenon is one of the novel consequences of the existence of Majorana fermion, because of the inherently nonlocal nature. In this work we consider a concrete realization and measurement scheme for this interesting behavior, based on a setup consisting of a pair of quantum dots which are tunnel-coupled to a semiconductor nanowire and are jointly measured by two point-contact detectors. We analyze the teleportation dynamics in the presence of measurement backaction and discuss how the teleportation events can be identified from the current trajectories of strong response detectors.
The Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) is widely accepted to hold true under certain assumptions. One of its implications is that the prediction of stock prices at least in the short run cannot outperform the random walk model. Yet, recently many studies stressing the psychological and social dimension of financial behavior have challenged the validity of the EMH. Towards this aim, over the last few years, internet-based communication platforms and search engines have been used to extract early indicators of social and economic trends. Here, we used Twitter's social networking platform to model and forecast the EUR/USD exchange rate in a high-frequency intradaily trading scale. Using time series and trading simulations analysis, we provide some evidence that the information provided in social microblogging platforms such as Twitter can in certain cases enhance the forecasting efficiency regarding the very short (intradaily) forex.
Twitter is one of the most prominent Online Social Networks. It covers a significant part of the online worldwide population~20% and has impressive growth rates. The social graph of Twitter has been the subject of numerous studies since it can reveal the intrinsic properties of large and complex online communities. Despite the plethora of these studies, there is a limited cover on the properties of the social graph while they evolve over time. Moreover, due to the extreme size of this social network (millions of nodes, billions of edges), there is a small subset of possible graph properties that can be efficiently measured in a reasonable timescale. In this paper we propose a sampling framework that allows the estimation of graph properties on large social networks. We apply this framework to a subset of Twitter's social network that has 13.2 million users, 8.3 billion edges and covers the complete Twitter timeline (from April 2006 to January 2015). We derive estimation on the time evolution of 24 graph properties many of which have never been measured on large social networks. We further discuss how these estimations shed more light on the inner structure and growth dynamics of Twitter's social network.
The ability to detect change-points in a dynamic network or a time series of graphs is an increasingly important task in many applications of the emerging discipline of graph signal processing. This paper formulates change-point detection as a hypothesis testing problem in terms of a generative latent position model, focusing on the special case of the Stochastic Block Model time series. We analyze two classes of scan statistics, based on distinct underlying locality statistics presented in the literature. Our main contribution is the derivation of the limiting distributions and power characteristics of the competing scan statistics. Performance is compared theoretically, on synthetic data, and on the Enron email corpus. We demonstrate that both statistics are admissible in one simple setting, while one of the statistics is inadmissible a second setting.
The aim of this paper to draw attention to several aspects of the algebraic dependence in algebras. The article starts with discussions of the algebraic dependence problem in commutative algebras. Then the Burchnall-Chaundy construction for proving algebraic dependence and obtaining the corresponding algebraic curves for commuting differential operators in the Heisenberg algebra is reviewed. Next some old and new results on algebraic dependence of commuting q-difference operators and elements in q-deformed Heisenberg algebras are reviewed. The main ideas and essence of two proofs of this are reviewed and compared. One is the algorithmic dimension growth existence proof. The other is the recent proof extending the Burchnall-Chaundy approach from differential operators and the Heisenberg algebra to the q-deformed Heisenberg algebra, showing that the Burchnall-Chaundy eliminant construction indeed provides annihilating curves for commuting elements in the q-deformed Heisenberg algebras for q not a root of unity.
Recently, Landau, Reid and Yershov provided a novel solution to the problem of redistricting. Instead of trying to ensure fairness by restricting the shape of the possible maps or by assigning the power to draw the map to nonbiased entities, the solution ensures fairness by balancing competing interests against each other. This kind of solution is an example of what are known as "fair division" solutions--- such solutions involve the preferences of all parties and are accompanied by rigorous guarantees of a specified well-defined notion of fairness. In this expository article, we give an introduction to the ideas of fair division in the context of this redistricting solution. Through examples and discussion we clarify how fair division methods can play an important role in a realistic redistricting solution by introducing an interactive step that incorporates a certain kind of fairness that can be used in concert with, and not a substitute for, other necessary or desired criteria for a good redistricting solution.
In a k-linear triangulated category (where k is a field) we show that the existence of Auslander-Reiten triangles implies that objects are determined, up to shift, by knowing dimensions of homomorphisms between them. In most cases the objects themselves are distinguished by this information, a conclusion which was also reached under slightly different hypotheses in a theorem of Jensen, Su and Zimmermann. The approach is to consider bilinear forms on Grothendieck groups which are analogous to the Green ring of a finite group. We specialize to the category of perfect complexes for a self-injective algebra, for which the Auslander-Reiten quiver has a known shape. We characterize the position in the quiver of many kinds of perfect complexes, including those of lengths 1, 2 and 3, rigid complexes and truncated projective resolutions. We describe completely the quiver components which contain projective modules. We obtain relationships between the homology of complexes at different places in the quiver, deducing that every self-injective algebra of radical length at least 3 has indecomposable perfect complexes with arbitrarily large homology in any given degree. We find also that homology stabilizes away from the rim of the quiver. We show that when the algebra is symmetric, one of the forms considered earlier is Hermitian, and this allows us to compute its values knowing them only on objects on the rim of the quiver.
Additive deformations of bialgebras in the sense of Wirth are deformations of the multiplication map of the bialgebra fulfilling a compatibility condition with the coalgebra structure and a continuity condition. Two problems concerning additive deformations are considered. With a deformation theory a cohomology theory should be developed. Here a variant of the Hochschild cohomology is used. The main result in the first partad of this paper is the characterization of the trivial deformations, i.e. deformations generated by a coboundary. Starting with a Hopf algebra, one would expect the deformed multiplications to have some analogue of the antipode, which we call deformed antipodes. We prove, that deformed antipodes always exist, explore their properties, give a formula to calculate them given the deformation and the antipode of the original Hopf algebra and show in the cocommutative case, that each deformation splits into a trivial part and into a part with constant antipodes.
This paper maps the national UK web presence on the basis of an analysis of the .uk domain from 1996 to 2010. It reviews previous attempts to use web archives to understand national web domains and describes the dataset. Next, it presents an analysis of the .uk domain, including the overall number of links in the archive and changes in the link density of different second-level domains over time. We then explore changes over time within a particular second-level domain, the academic subdomain .ac.uk, and compare linking practices with variables, including institutional affiliation, league table ranking, and geographic location. We do not detect institutional affiliation affecting linking practices and find only partial evidence of league table ranking affecting network centrality, but find a clear inverse relationship between the density of links and the geographical distance between universities. This echoes prior findings regarding offline academic activity, which allows us to argue that real-world factors like geography continue to shape academic relationships even in the Internet age. We conclude with directions for future uses of web archive resources in this emerging area of research.
We investigate the impact of coulomb screening on primordial nucleosynthesis in a universe having scale factor that evolves linearly with time. Coulomb screening affects primordial nucleosynthesis via enhancement of thermonuclear reaction rates. This enhancement is determined by the solving Poisson equation within the context of mean field theory (under appropriate conditions during the primordial nucleosynthesis). Using these results, we claim that the mean field estimates of coulomb screening hardly affect the predicted element abundances and nucleosynthesis parameters$, \{\eta_9,\xi_e\}$. The deviations from mean field estimates are also studied in detail by boosting genuine screening results with the screening parameter ($\omega_s$). These deviations show negligible effect on the element abundances and on nucleosynthesis parameters. This work thus rules out the coulomb screening effects on primordial nucleosynthesis in slow evolving models and confirms that constraints in ref.[7] on nucleosynthesis parameters remain unaltered.
Now that so much of collective action takes place online, web-generated data can further understanding of the mechanics of Internet-based mobilisation. This trace data offers social science researchers the potential for new forms of analysis, using real-time transactional data based on entire populations, rather than sample-based surveys of what people think they did or might do. This paper uses a `big data' approach to track the growth of over 8,000 petitions to the UK Government on the No. 10 Downing Street website for two years, analysing the rate of growth per day and testing the hypothesis that the distribution of daily change will be leptokurtic (rather than normal) as previous research on agenda setting would suggest. This hypothesis is confirmed, suggesting that Internet-based mobilisation is characterized by tipping points (or punctuated equilibria) and explaining some of the volatility in online collective action. We find also that most successful petitions grow quickly and that the number of signatures a petition receives on its first day is a significant factor in explaining the overall number of signatures a petition receives during its lifetime. These findings have implications for the strategies of those initiating petitions and the design of web sites with the aim of maximising citizen engagement with policy issues.
Recently, there has been focus on penalized log-likelihood covariance estimation for sparse inverse covariance (precision) matrices. The penalty is responsible for inducing sparsity, and a very common choice is the convex $l_1$ norm. However, the best estimator performance is not always achieved with this penalty. The most natural sparsity promoting "norm" is the non-convex $l_0$ penalty but its lack of convexity has deterred its use in sparse maximum likelihood estimation. In this paper we consider non-convex $l_0$ penalized log-likelihood inverse covariance estimation and present a novel cyclic descent algorithm for its optimization. Convergence to a local minimizer is proved, which is highly non-trivial, and we demonstrate via simulations the reduced bias and superior quality of the $l_0$ penalty as compared to the $l_1$ penalty.
Broadcast MIMO techniques can significantly increase the throughput in the downlink of cellular networks, at the price of channel state information (CSI) feedback from the mobiles, sent over the uplink. Thus, it creates a mechanism that can tradeoff some uplink capacity for increased downlink capacity. In this work we quantify this tradeoff and study the exchange ratio between the feedback rate (over the uplink) and the downlink rate. We study both finite and infinite networks, and show that for high enough (but finite) SNR, the uplink rate can be exchanged for increased downlink rate with a favorable exchange ratio. This exchange ratio is an increasing function of the channel coherence time, and a decreasing function of the number of measured base stations. We also show that devoting a constant fraction of the uplink to CSI feedback can increase the downlink multiplexing gain continuously from 0 to 1, in finite networks. On the other hand, in infinite networks (with infinite connectivity) our bounds can only show doubly logarithmic scaling of the rate with SNR. The presented results prove that the adaptation of the feedback rate can control the balance between the uplink and downlink rates. This capability is very important in modern cellular networks, where the operators need to respond to continuously changing user demands.
This paper introduces a class of mixed-effects models for joint modeling of spatially correlated intensity variation and warping variation in 2D images. Spatially correlated intensity variation and warp variation are modeled as random effects, resulting in a nonlinear mixed-effects model that enables simultaneous estimation of template and model parameters by optimization of the likelihood function. We propose an algorithm for fitting the model which alternates estimation of variance parameters and image registration. This approach avoids the potential estimation bias in the template estimate that arises when treating registration as a preprocessing step. We apply the model to datasets of facial images and 2D brain magnetic resonance images to illustrate the simultaneous estimation and prediction of intensity and warp effects.
In this paper, we proposed a novel mutual consistency network (MC-Net+) to effectively exploit the unlabeled hard regions for semi-supervised medical image segmentation. The MC-Net+ model is motivated by the observation that deep models trained with limited annotations are prone to output highly uncertain and easily mis-classified predictions in the ambiguous regions (e.g. adhesive edges or thin branches) for the image segmentation task. Leveraging these region-level challenging samples can make the semi-supervised segmentation model training more effective. Therefore, our proposed MC-Net+ model consists of two new designs. First, the model contains one shared encoder and multiple sightly different decoders (i.e. using different up-sampling strategies). The statistical discrepancy of multiple decoders' outputs is computed to denote the model's uncertainty, which indicates the unlabeled hard regions. Second, a new mutual consistency constraint is enforced between one decoder's probability output and other decoders' soft pseudo labels. In this way, we minimize the model's uncertainty during training and force the model to generate invariant and low-entropy results in such challenging areas of unlabeled data, in order to learn a generalized feature representation. We compared the segmentation results of the MC-Net+ with five state-of-the-art semi-supervised approaches on three public medical datasets. Extension experiments with two common semi-supervised settings demonstrate the superior performance of our model over other existing methods, which sets a new state of the art for semi-supervised medical image segmentation.
Semantic segmentation of fine-resolution urban scene images plays a vital role in extensive practical applications, such as land cover mapping, urban change detection, environmental protection and economic assessment. Driven by rapid developments in deep learning technologies, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have dominated the semantic segmentation task for many years. Convolutional neural networks adopt hierarchical feature representation and have strong local context extraction. However, the local property of the convolution layer limits the network from capturing global information that is crucial for improving fine-resolution image segmentation. Recently, Transformer comprise a hot topic in the computer vision domain. Vision Transformer demonstrates the great capability of global information modelling, boosting many vision tasks, such as image classification, object detection and especially semantic segmentation. In this paper, we propose an efficient hybrid Transformer (EHT) for semantic segmentation of urban scene images. EHT takes advantage of CNNs and Transformer, learning global-local context to strengthen the feature representation. Extensive experiments demonstrate that EHT has higher efficiency with competitive accuracy compared with state-of-the-art benchmark methods. Specifically, the proposed EHT achieves a 67.0% mIoU on the UAVid test set and outperforms other lightweight models significantly. The code will be available soon.
The CNN-based methods have achieved impressive results in medical image segmentation, but it failed to capture the long-range dependencies due to the inherent locality of convolution operation. Transformer-based methods are popular in vision tasks recently because of its capacity of long-range dependencies and get a promising performance. However, it lacks in modeling local context, although some works attempted to embed convolutional layer to overcome this problem and achieved some improvement, but it makes the feature inconsistent and fails to leverage the natural multi-scale features of hierarchical transformer, which limit the performance of models. In this paper, taking medical image segmentation as an example, we present MISSFormer, an effective and powerful Medical Image Segmentation tranSFormer. MISSFormer is a hierarchical encoder-decoder network and has two appealing designs: 1) A feed forward network is redesigned with the proposed Enhanced Transformer Block, which makes features aligned adaptively and enhances the long-range dependencies and local context. 2) We proposed Enhanced Transformer Context Bridge, a context bridge with the enhanced transformer block to model the long-range dependencies and local context of multi-scale features generated by our hierarchical transformer encoder. Driven by these two designs, the MISSFormer shows strong capacity to capture more valuable dependencies and context in medical image segmentation. The experiments on multi-organ and cardiac segmentation tasks demonstrate the superiority, effectiveness and robustness of our MISSFormer, the exprimental results of MISSFormer trained from scratch even outperforms state-of-the-art methods pretrained on ImageNet, and the core designs can be generalized to other visual segmentation tasks. The code
Modern deep neural networks struggle to transfer knowledge and generalize across domains when deploying to real-world applications. Domain generalization (DG) aims to learn a universal representation from multiple source domains to improve the network generalization ability on unseen target domains. Previous DG methods mostly focus on the data-level consistency scheme to advance the generalization capability of deep networks, without considering the synergistic regularization of different consistency schemes. In this paper, we present a novel Hierarchical Consistency framework for Domain Generalization (HCDG) by ensembling Extrinsic Consistency and Intrinsic Consistency. Particularly, for Extrinsic Consistency, we leverage the knowledge across multiple source domains to enforce data-level consistency. Also, we design a novel Amplitude Gaussian-mixing strategy for Fourier-based data augmentation to enhance such consistency. For Intrinsic Consistency, we perform task-level consistency for the same instance under the dual-task form. We evaluate the proposed HCDG framework on two medical image segmentation tasks, i.e., optic cup/disc segmentation on fundus images and prostate MRI segmentation. Extensive experimental results manifest the effectiveness and versatility of our HCDG framework. Code will be available once accept.
Machine learning has been utilized to perform tasks in many different domains such as classification, object detection, image segmentation and natural language analysis. Data labeling has always been one of the most important tasks in machine learning. However, labeling large amounts of data increases the monetary cost in machine learning. As a result, researchers started to focus on reducing data annotation and labeling costs. Transfer learning was designed and widely used as an efficient approach that can reasonably reduce the negative impact of limited data, which in turn, reduces the data preparation cost. Even transferring previous knowledge from a source domain reduces the amount of data needed in a target domain. However, large amounts of annotated data are still demanded to build robust models and improve the prediction accuracy of the model. Therefore, researchers started to pay more attention on auto annotation and labeling. In this survey paper, we provide a review of previous techniques that focuses on optimized data annotation and labeling for video, audio, and text data.
Deep learning has achieved remarkable success in medicalimage segmentation, but it usually requires a large numberof images labeled with fine-grained segmentation masks, andthe annotation of these masks can be very expensive andtime-consuming. Therefore, recent methods try to use un-supervised domain adaptation (UDA) methods to borrow in-formation from labeled data from other datasets (source do-mains) to a new dataset (target domain). However, due tothe absence of labels in the target domain, the performance ofUDA methods is much worse than that of the fully supervisedmethod. In this paper, we propose a weakly supervised do-main adaptation setting, in which we can partially label newdatasets with bounding boxes, which are easier and cheaperto obtain than segmentation masks. Accordingly, we proposea new weakly-supervised domain adaptation method calledBox-Adapt, which fully explores the fine-grained segmenta-tion mask in the source domain and the weak bounding boxin the target domain. Our Box-Adapt is a two-stage methodthat first performs joint training on the source and target do-mains, and then conducts self-training with the pseudo-labelsof the target domain. We demonstrate the effectiveness of ourmethod in the liver segmentation task. Weakly supervised do-main adaptation
Transformers have shown impressive performance in various natural language processing and computer vision tasks, due to the capability of modeling long-range dependencies. Recent progress has demonstrated to combine such transformers with CNN-based semantic image segmentation models is very promising. However, it is not well studied yet on how well a pure transformer based approach can achieve for image segmentation. In this work, we explore a novel framework for semantic image segmentation, which is encoder-decoder based Fully Transformer Networks (FTN). Specifically, we first propose a Pyramid Group Transformer (PGT) as the encoder for progressively learning hierarchical features, while reducing the computation complexity of the standard visual transformer(ViT). Then, we propose a Feature Pyramid Transformer (FPT) to fuse semantic-level and spatial-level information from multiple levels of the PGT encoder for semantic image segmentation. Surprisingly, this simple baseline can achieve new state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging semantic segmentation benchmarks, including PASCAL Context, ADE20K and COCO-Stuff. The source code will be released upon the publication of this work.
Pre-training a recognition model with contrastive learning on a large dataset of unlabeled data has shown great potential to boost the performance of a downstream task, e.g., image classification. However, in domains such as medical imaging, collecting unlabeled data can be challenging and expensive. In this work, we propose to adapt contrastive learning to work with meta-label annotations, for improving the model's performance in medical image segmentation even when no additional unlabeled data is available. Meta-labels such as the location of a 2D slice in a 3D MRI scan or the type of device used, often come for free during the acquisition process. We use the meta-labels for pre-training the image encoder as well as to regularize a semi-supervised training, in which a reduced set of annotated data is used for training. Finally, to fully exploit the weak annotations, a self-paced learning approach is used to help the learning and discriminate useful labels from noise. Results on three different medical image segmentation datasets show that our approach: i) highly boosts the performance of a model trained on a few scans, ii) outperforms previous contrastive and semi-supervised approaches, and iii) reaches close to the performance of a model trained on the full data.
The development of high quality medical image segmentation algorithms depends on the availability of large datasets with pixel-level labels. The challenges of collecting such datasets, especially in case of 3D volumes, motivate to develop approaches that can learn from other types of labels that are cheap to obtain, e.g. bounding boxes. We focus on 3D medical images with their corresponding 3D bounding boxes which are considered as series of per-slice non-tight 2D bounding boxes. While current weakly-supervised approaches that use 2D bounding boxes as weak labels can be applied to medical image segmentation, we show that their success is limited in cases when the assumption about the tightness of the bounding boxes breaks. We propose a new bounding box correction framework which is trained on a small set of pixel-level annotations to improve the tightness of a larger set of non-tight bounding box annotations. The effectiveness of our solution is demonstrated by evaluating a known weakly-supervised segmentation approach with and without the proposed bounding box correction algorithm. When the tightness is improved by our solution, the results of the weakly-supervised segmentation become much closer to those of the fully-supervised one.
Recent advances in brain clearing and imaging have made it possible to image entire mammalian brains at sub-micron resolution. These images offer the potential to assemble brain-wide atlases of projection neuron morphology, but manual neuron reconstruction remains a bottleneck. In this paper we present a probabilistic method which combines a hidden Markov state process that encodes neuron geometric properties with a random field appearance model of the flourescence process. Our method utilizes dynamic programming to efficiently compute the global maximizers of what we call the "most probable" neuron path. We applied our algorithm to the output of image segmentation models where false negatives severed neuronal processes, and showed that it can follow axons in the presence of noise or nearby neurons. Our method has the potential to be integrated into a semi or fully automated reconstruction pipeline. Additionally, it creates a framework for conditioning the probability to fixed start and endpoints through which users can intervene with hard constraints to, for example, rule out certain reconstructions, or assign axons to particular cell bodies.
Although having achieved great success in medical image segmentation, deep convolutional neural networks usually require a large dataset with manual annotations for training and are difficult to generalize to unseen classes. Few-shot learning has the potential to address these challenges by learning new classes from only a few labeled examples. In this work, we propose a new framework for few-shot medical image segmentation based on prototypical networks. Our innovation lies in the design of two key modules: 1) a context relation encoder (CRE) that uses correlation to capture local relation features between foreground and background regions; and 2) a recurrent mask refinement module that repeatedly uses the CRE and a prototypical network to recapture the change of context relationship and refine the segmentation mask iteratively. Experiments on two abdomen CT datasets and an abdomen MRI dataset show the proposed method obtains substantial improvement over the state-of-the-art methods by an average of 16.32%, 8.45% and 6.24% in terms of DSC, respectively. Code is publicly available.
We introduce a new image segmentation task, termed Entity Segmentation (ES) with the aim to segment all visual entities in an image without considering semantic category labels. It has many practical applications in image manipulation/editing where the segmentation mask quality is typically crucial but category labels are less important. In this setting, all semantically-meaningful segments are equally treated as categoryless entities and there is no thing-stuff distinction. Based on our unified entity representation, we propose a center-based entity segmentation framework with two novel modules to improve mask quality. Experimentally, both our new task and framework demonstrate superior advantages as against existing work. In particular, ES enables the following: (1) merging multiple datasets to form a large training set without the need to resolve label conflicts; (2) any model trained on one dataset can generalize exceptionally well to other datasets with unseen domains. Our code is made publicly available at https://github.com/dvlab-research/Entity.
Accurate image segmentation plays a crucial role in medical image analysis, yet it faces great challenges of various shapes, diverse sizes, and blurry boundaries. To address these difficulties, square kernel-based encoder-decoder architecture has been proposed and widely used, but its performance remains still unsatisfactory. To further cope with these challenges, we present a novel double-branch encoder architecture. Our architecture is inspired by two observations: 1) Since the discrimination of features learned via square convolutional kernels needs to be further improved, we propose to utilize non-square vertical and horizontal convolutional kernels in the double-branch encoder, so features learned by the two branches can be expected to complement each other. 2) Considering that spatial attention can help models to better focus on the target region in a large-sized image, we develop an attention loss to further emphasize the segmentation on small-sized targets. Together, the above two schemes give rise to a novel double-branch encoder segmentation framework for medical image segmentation, namely Crosslink-Net. The experiments validate the effectiveness of our model on four datasets. The code is released at https://github.com/Qianyu1226/Crosslink-Net.
The attractiveness of a property is one of the most interesting, yet challenging, categories to model. Image characteristics are used to describe certain attributes, and to examine the influence of visual factors on the price or timeframe of the listing. In this paper, we propose a set of techniques for the extraction of visual features for efficient numerical inclusion in modern-day predictive algorithms. We discuss techniques such as Shannon's entropy, calculating the center of gravity, employing image segmentation, and using Convolutional Neural Networks. After comparing these techniques as applied to a set of property-related images (indoor, outdoor, and satellite), we conclude the following: (i) the entropy is the most efficient single-digit visual measure for housing price prediction; (ii) image segmentation is the most important visual feature for the prediction of housing lifespan; and (iii) deep image features can be used to quantify interior characteristics and contribute to captivation modeling. The set of 40 image features selected here carries a significant amount of predictive power and outperforms some of the strongest metadata predictors. Without any need to replace a human expert in a real-estate appraisal process, we conclude that the techniques presented in this paper can efficiently describe visible characteristics, thus introducing perceived attractiveness as a quantitative measure into the predictive modeling of housing.
Domain Adaptation (DA) methods are widely used in medical image segmentation tasks to tackle the problem of differently distributed train (source) and test (target) data. We consider the supervised DA task with a limited number of annotated samples from the target domain. It corresponds to one of the most relevant clinical setups: building a sufficiently accurate model on the minimum possible amount of annotated data. Existing methods mostly fine-tune specific layers of the pretrained Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). However, there is no consensus on which layers are better to fine-tune, e.g. the first layers for images with low-level domain shift or the deeper layers for images with high-level domain shift. To this end, we propose SpotTUnet - a CNN architecture that automatically chooses the layers which should be optimally fine-tuned. More specifically, on the target domain, our method additionally learns the policy that indicates whether a specific layer should be fine-tuned or reused from the pretrained network. We show that our method performs at the same level as the best of the nonflexible fine-tuning methods even under the extreme scarcity of annotated data. Secondly, we show that SpotTUnet policy provides a layer-wise visualization of the domain shift impact on the network, which could be further used to develop robust domain generalization methods. In order to extensively evaluate SpotTUnet performance, we use a publicly available dataset of brain MR images (CC359), characterized by explicit domain shift. We release a reproducible experimental pipeline.
In medical image segmentation, it is difficult to mark ambiguous areas accurately with binary masks, especially when dealing with small lesions. Therefore, it is a challenge for radiologists to reach a consensus by using binary masks under the condition of multiple annotations. However, these areas may contain anatomical structures that are conducive to diagnosis. Uncertainty is introduced to study these situations. Nevertheless, the uncertainty is usually measured by the variances between predictions in a multiple trial way. It is not intuitive, and there is no exact correspondence in the image. Inspired by image matting, we introduce matting as a soft segmentation method and a new perspective to deal with and represent uncertain regions into medical scenes, namely medical matting. More specifically, because there is no available medical matting dataset, we first labeled two medical datasets with alpha matte. Secondly, the matting method applied to the natural image is not suitable for the medical scene, so we propose a new architecture to generate binary masks and alpha matte in a row. Thirdly, the uncertainty map is introduced to highlight the ambiguous regions from the binary results and improve the matting performance. Evaluated on these datasets, the proposed model outperformed state-of-the-art matting algorithms by a large margin, and alpha matte is proved to be a more efficient labeling form than a binary mask.
Over the past decade, Deep Convolutional Neural Networks have been widely adopted for medical image segmentation and shown to achieve adequate performance. However, due to the inherent inductive biases present in the convolutional architectures, they lack understanding of long-range dependencies in the image. Recently proposed Transformer-based architectures that leverage self-attention mechanism encode long-range dependencies and learn representations that are highly expressive. This motivates us to explore Transformer-based solutions and study the feasibility of using Transformer-based network architectures for medical image segmentation tasks. Majority of existing Transformer-based network architectures proposed for vision applications require large-scale datasets to train properly. However, compared to the datasets for vision applications, for medical imaging the number of data samples is relatively low, making it difficult to efficiently train transformers for medical applications. To this end, we propose a Gated Axial-Attention model which extends the existing architectures by introducing an additional control mechanism in the self-attention module. Furthermore, to train the model effectively on medical images, we propose a Local-Global training strategy (LoGo) which further improves the performance. Specifically, we operate on the whole image and patches to learn global and local features, respectively. The proposed Medical Transformer (MedT) is evaluated on three different medical image segmentation datasets and it is shown that it achieves better performance than the convolutional and other related transformer-based architectures. Code: https://github.com/jeya-maria-jose/Medical-Transformer
Deep learning-based segmentation methods are vulnerable to unforeseen data distribution shifts during deployment, e.g. change of image appearances or contrasts caused by different scanners, unexpected imaging artifacts etc. In this paper, we present a cooperative framework for training image segmentation models and a latent space augmentation method for generating hard examples. Both contributions improve model generalization and robustness with limited data. The cooperative training framework consists of a fast-thinking network (FTN) and a slow-thinking network (STN). The FTN learns decoupled image features and shape features for image reconstruction and segmentation tasks. The STN learns shape priors for segmentation correction and refinement. The two networks are trained in a cooperative manner. The latent space augmentation generates challenging examples for training by masking the decoupled latent space in both channel-wise and spatial-wise manners. We performed extensive experiments on public cardiac imaging datasets. Using only 10 subjects from a single site for training, we demonstrated improved cross-site segmentation performance and increased robustness against various unforeseen imaging artifacts compared to strong baseline methods. Particularly, cooperative training with latent space data augmentation yields 15% improvement in terms of average Dice score when compared to a standard training method.
Tensor networks provide an efficient approximation of operations involving high dimensional tensors and have been extensively used in modelling quantum many-body systems. More recently, supervised learning has been attempted with tensor networks, primarily focused on tasks such as image classification. In this work, we propose a novel formulation of tensor networks for supervised image segmentation which allows them to operate on high resolution medical images. We use the matrix product state (MPS) tensor network on non-overlapping patches of a given input image to predict the segmentation mask by learning a pixel-wise linear classification rule in a high dimensional space. The proposed model is end-to-end trainable using backpropagation. It is implemented as a Strided Tensor Network to reduce the parameter complexity. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated on two public medical imaging datasets and compared to relevant baselines. The evaluation shows that the strided tensor network yields competitive performance compared to CNN-based models while using fewer resources. Additionally, based on the experiments we discuss the feasibility of using fully linear models for segmentation tasks.
Deep learning has proven to be a highly effective problem-solving tool for object detection and image segmentation across various domains such as healthcare and autonomous driving. At the heart of this performance lies neural architecture design which relies heavily on domain knowledge and prior experience on the researchers' behalf. More recently, this process of finding the most optimal architectures, given an initial search space of possible operations, was automated by Neural Architecture Search (NAS). In this paper, we evaluate the robustness of one such algorithm known as Efficient NAS (ENAS) against data agnostic poisoning attacks on the original search space with carefully designed ineffective operations. By evaluating algorithm performance on the CIFAR-10 dataset, we empirically demonstrate how our novel search space poisoning (SSP) approach and multiple-instance poisoning attacks exploit design flaws in the ENAS controller to result in inflated prediction error rates for child networks. Our results provide insights into the challenges to surmount in using NAS for more adversarially robust architecture search.
In this work, we present a simple yet effective framework to address the domain translation problem between different sensor modalities with unique data formats. By relying only on the semantics of the scene, our modular generative framework can, for the first time, synthesize a panoramic color image from a given full 3D LiDAR point cloud. The framework starts with semantic segmentation of the point cloud, which is initially projected onto a spherical surface. The same semantic segmentation is applied to the corresponding camera image. Next, our new conditional generative model adversarially learns to translate the predicted LiDAR segment maps to the camera image counterparts. Finally, generated image segments are processed to render the panoramic scene images. We provide a thorough quantitative evaluation on the SemanticKitti dataset and show that our proposed framework outperforms other strong baseline models. Our source code is available at https://github.com/halmstad-University/TITAN-NET
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is one of the primary tools to show microstructural characterization of materials as well as film thickness. However, manual determination of film thickness from TEM images is time-consuming as well as subjective, especially when the films in question are very thin and the need for measurement precision is very high. Such is the case for head overcoat (HOC) thickness measurements in the magnetic hard disk drive industry. It is therefore necessary to develop software to automatically measure HOC thickness. In this paper, for the first time, we propose a HOC layer segmentation method using NASNet-Large as an encoder and then followed by a decoder architecture, which is one of the most commonly used architectures in deep learning for image segmentation. To further improve segmentation results, we are the first to propose a post-processing layer to remove irrelevant portions in the segmentation result. To measure the thickness of the segmented HOC layer, we propose a regressive convolutional neural network (RCNN) model as well as orthogonal thickness calculation methods. Experimental results demonstrate a higher dice score for our model which has lower mean squared error and outperforms current state-of-the-art manual measurement.
Vision Transformers (ViT) have been shown to attain highly competitive performance for a wide range of vision applications, such as image classification, object detection and semantic image segmentation. In comparison to convolutional neural networks, the Vision Transformer's weaker inductive bias is generally found to cause an increased reliance on model regularization or data augmentation (``AugReg'' for short) when training on smaller training datasets. We conduct a systematic empirical study in order to better understand the interplay between the amount of training data, AugReg, model size and compute budget. As one result of this study we find that the combination of increased compute and AugReg can yield models with the same performance as models trained on an order of magnitude more training data: we train ViT models of various sizes on the public ImageNet-21k dataset which either match or outperform their counterparts trained on the larger, but not publicly available JFT-300M dataset.
In this work, we address the task of referring image segmentation (RIS), which aims at predicting a segmentation mask for the object described by a natural language expression. Most existing methods focus on establishing unidirectional or directional relationships between visual and linguistic features to associate two modalities together, while the multi-scale context is ignored or insufficiently modeled. Multi-scale context is crucial to localize and segment those objects that have large scale variations during the multi-modal fusion process. To solve this problem, we propose a simple yet effective Cascaded Multi-modal Fusion (CMF) module, which stacks multiple atrous convolutional layers in parallel and further introduces a cascaded branch to fuse visual and linguistic features. The cascaded branch can progressively integrate multi-scale contextual information and facilitate the alignment of two modalities during the multi-modal fusion process. Experimental results on four benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms most state-of-the-art methods. Code is available at https://github.com/jianhua2022/CMF-Refseg.
We introduce a new method for generating color images from sketches or edge maps. Current methods either require some form of additional user-guidance or are limited to the "paired" translation approach. We argue that segmentation information could provide valuable guidance for sketch colorization. To this end, we propose to leverage semantic image segmentation, as provided by a general purpose panoptic segmentation network, to create an additional adversarial loss function. Our loss function can be integrated to any baseline GAN model. Our method is not limited to datasets that contain segmentation labels, and it can be trained for "unpaired" translation tasks. We show the effectiveness of our method on four different datasets spanning scene level indoor, outdoor, and children book illustration images using qualitative, quantitative and user study analysis. Our model improves its baseline up to 35 points on the FID metric. Our code and pretrained models can be found at https://github.com/giddyyupp/AdvSegLoss.
Medical image segmentation is one of the important tasks of computer-aided diagnosis in medical image analysis. Since most medical images have the characteristics of blurred boundaries and uneven intensity distribution, through existing segmentation methods, the discontinuity within the target area and the discontinuity of the target boundary are likely to lead to rough or even erroneous boundary delineation. In this paper, we propose a new iterative refined interactive segmentation method for medical images based on agent reinforcement learning, which focuses on the problem of target segmentation boundaries. We model the dynamic process of drawing the target contour in a certain order as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) based on a deep reinforcement learning method. In the dynamic process of continuous interaction between the agent and the image, the agent tracks the boundary point by point in order within a limited length range until the contour of the target is completely drawn. In this process, the agent can quickly improve the segmentation performance by exploring an interactive policy in the image. The method we proposed is simple and effective. At the same time, we evaluate our method on the cardiac MRI scan data set. Experimental results show that our method has a better segmentation effect on the left ventricle in a small number of medical image data sets, especially in terms of segmentation boundaries, this method is better than existing methods. Based on our proposed method, the dynamic generation process of the predicted contour trajectory of the left ventricle will be
Contrastive learning has shown superior performance in embedding global and spatial invariant features in computer vision (e.g., image classification). However, its overall success of embedding local and spatial variant features is still limited, especially for semantic segmentation. In a per-pixel prediction task, more than one label can exist in a single image for segmentation (e.g., an image contains both cat, dog, and grass), thereby it is difficult to define 'positive' or 'negative' pairs in a canonical contrastive learning setting. In this paper, we propose an attention-guided supervised contrastive learning approach to highlight a single semantic object every time as the target. With our design, the same image can be embedded to different semantic clusters with semantic attention (i.e., coerce semantic masks) as an additional input channel. To achieve such attention, a novel two-stage training strategy is presented. We evaluate the proposed method on multi-organ medical image segmentation task, as our major task, with both in-house data and BTCV 2015 datasets. Comparing with the supervised and semi-supervised training state-of-the-art in the backbone of ResNet-50, our proposed pipeline yields substantial improvement of 5.53% and 6.09% in Dice score for both medical image segmentation cohorts respectively. The performance of the proposed method on natural images is assessed via PASCAL VOC 2012 dataset, and achieves 2.75% substantial improvement.
Identification of abnormalities in red blood cells (RBC) is key to diagnosing a range of medical conditions from anaemia to liver disease. Currently this is done manually, a time-consuming and subjective process. This paper presents an automated process utilising the advantages of machine learning to increase capacity and standardisation of cell abnormality detection, and its performance is analysed. Three different machine learning technologies were used: a Support Vector Machine (SVM), a classical machine learning technology; TabNet, a deep learning architecture for tabular data; U-Net, a semantic segmentation network designed for medical image segmentation. A critical issue was the highly imbalanced nature of the dataset which impacts the efficacy of machine learning. To address this, synthesising minority class samples in feature space was investigated via Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique (SMOTE) and cost-sensitive learning. A combination of these two methods is investigated to improve the overall performance. These strategies were found to increase sensitivity to minority classes. The impact of unknown cells on semantic segmentation is demonstrated, with some evidence of the model applying learning of labelled cells to these anonymous cells. These findings indicate both classical models and new deep learning networks as promising methods in automating RBC abnormality detection.
Quantitative bone single-photon emission computed tomography (QBSPECT) has the potential to provide a better quantitative assessment of bone metastasis than planar bone scintigraphy due to its ability to better quantify activity in overlapping structures. An important element of assessing response of bone metastasis is accurate image segmentation. However, limited by the properties of QBSPECT images, the segmentation of anatomical regions-of-interests (ROIs) still relies heavily on the manual delineation by experts. This work proposes a fast and robust automated segmentation method for partitioning a QBSPECT image into lesion, bone, and background. We present a new unsupervised segmentation loss function and its semi- and supervised variants for training a convolutional neural network (ConvNet). The loss functions were developed based on the objective function of the classical Fuzzy C-means (FCM) algorithm. We conducted a comprehensive study to compare our proposed methods with ConvNets trained using supervised loss functions and conventional clustering methods. The Dice similarity coefficient (DSC) and several other metrics were used as figures of merit as applied to the task of delineating lesion and bone in both simulated and clinical SPECT/CT images. We experimentally demonstrated that the proposed methods yielded good segmentation results on a clinical dataset even though the training was done using realistic simulated images. A ConvNet-based image segmentation method that uses novel loss functions was developed and evaluated. The method can operate in unsupervised, semi-supervised, or fully-supervised modes depending on the availability of annotated training data. The results demonstrated that the proposed method provides fast and robust lesion
Image Segmentation has been an active field of research as it has a wide range of applications, ranging from automated disease detection to self-driving cars. In recent years, various research papers proposed different loss functions used in case of biased data, sparse segmentation, and unbalanced dataset. In this paper, we introduce SemSegLoss, a python package consisting of some of the well-known loss functions widely used for image segmentation. It is developed with the intent to help researchers in the development of novel loss functions and perform an extensive set of experiments on model architectures for various applications. The ease-of-use and flexibility of the presented package have allowed reducing the development time and increased evaluation strategies of machine learning models for semantic segmentation. Furthermore, different applications that use image segmentation can use SemSegLoss because of the generality of its functions. This wide range of applications will lead to the development and growth of AI across all industries.
Automated segmentation in medical image analysis is a challenging task that requires a large amount of manually labeled data. However, manually annotating medical data is often laborious, and most existing learning-based approaches fail to accurately delineate object boundaries without effective geometric constraints. Contrastive learning, a sub-area of self-supervised learning, has recently been noted as a promising direction in multiple application fields. In this work, we present a novel Contrastive Voxel-wise Representation Learning (CVRL) method with geometric constraints to learn global-local visual representations for volumetric medical image segmentation with limited annotations. Our framework can effectively learn global and local features by capturing 3D spatial context and rich anatomical information. Specifically, we introduce a voxel-to-volume contrastive algorithm to learn global information from 3D images, and propose to perform local voxel-to-voxel contrast to explicitly make use of local cues in the embedding space. Moreover, we integrate an elastic interaction-based active contour model as a geometric regularization term to enable fast and reliable object delineations in an end-to-end learning manner. Results on the Atrial Segmentation Challenge dataset demonstrate superiority of our proposed scheme, especially in a setting with a very limited number of annotated data.
Although deep models have greatly improved the accuracy and robustness of image segmentation, obtaining segmentation results with highly accurate boundaries and fine structures is still a challenging problem. In this paper, we propose a simple yet powerful Boundary-Aware Segmentation Network (BASNet), which comprises a predict-refine architecture and a hybrid loss, for highly accurate image segmentation. The predict-refine architecture consists of a densely supervised encoder-decoder network and a residual refinement module, which are respectively used to predict and refine a segmentation probability map. The hybrid loss is a combination of the binary cross entropy, structural similarity and intersection-over-union losses, which guide the network to learn three-level (ie, pixel-, patch- and map- level) hierarchy representations. We evaluate our BASNet on two reverse tasks including salient object segmentation, camouflaged object segmentation, showing that it achieves very competitive performance with sharp segmentation boundaries. Importantly, BASNet runs at over 70 fps on a single GPU which benefits many potential real applications. Based on BASNet, we further developed two (close to) commercial applications: AR COPY & PASTE, in which BASNet is integrated with augmented reality for "COPYING" and "PASTING" real-world objects, and OBJECT CUT, which is a web-based tool for automatic object background removal. Both applications have already drawn huge amount of attention and have important real-world impacts. The code and two applications will be publicly available at: https://github.com/NathanUA/BASNet.
Recently, referring image segmentation has aroused widespread interest. Previous methods perform the multi-modal fusion between language and vision at the decoding side of the network. And, linguistic feature interacts with visual feature of each scale separately, which ignores the continuous guidance of language to multi-scale visual features. In this work, we propose an encoder fusion network (EFN), which transforms the visual encoder into a multi-modal feature learning network, and uses language to refine the multi-modal features progressively. Moreover, a co-attention mechanism is embedded in the EFN to realize the parallel update of multi-modal features, which can promote the consistent of the cross-modal information representation in the semantic space. Finally, we propose a boundary enhancement module (BEM) to make the network pay more attention to the fine structure. The experiment results on four benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed approach achieves the state-of-the-art performance under different evaluation metrics without any post-processing.
Standard losses for training deep segmentation networks could be seen as individual classifications of pixels, instead of supervising the global shape of the predicted segmentations. While effective, they require exact knowledge of the label of each pixel in an image. This study investigates how effective global geometric shape descriptors could be, when used on their own as segmentation losses for training deep networks. Not only interesting theoretically, there exist deeper motivations to posing segmentation problems as a reconstruction of shape descriptors: Annotations to obtain approximations of low-order shape moments could be much less cumbersome than their full-mask counterparts, and anatomical priors could be readily encoded into invariant shape descriptions, which might alleviate the annotation burden. Also, and most importantly, we hypothesize that, given a task, certain shape descriptions might be invariant across image acquisition protocols/modalities and subject populations, which might open interesting research avenues for generalization in medical image segmentation. We introduce and formulate a few shape descriptors in the context of deep segmentation, and evaluate their potential as standalone losses on two different challenging tasks. Inspired by recent works in constrained optimization for deep networks, we propose a way to use those descriptors to supervise segmentation, without any pixel-level label. Very surprisingly, as little as 4 descriptors values per class can approach the performance of a segmentation mask with 65k individual discrete labels. We also found that shape descriptors can be a valid way to encode anatomical priors about the task, enabling to leverage expert knowledge without additional annotations.
Medical images are often accompanied by metadata describing the image (vendor, acquisition parameters) and the patient (disease type or severity, demographics, genomics). This metadata is usually disregarded by image segmentation methods. In this work, we adapt a linear conditioning method called FiLM (Feature-wise Linear Modulation) for image segmentation tasks. This FiLM adaptation enables integrating metadata into segmentation models for better performance. We observed an average Dice score increase of 5.1% on spinal cord tumor segmentation when incorporating the tumor type with FiLM. The metadata modulates the segmentation process through low-cost affine transformations applied on feature maps which can be included in any neural network's architecture. Additionally, we assess the relevance of segmentation FiLM layers for tackling common challenges in medical imaging: multi-class training with missing segmentations, model adaptation to multiple tasks, and training with a limited or unbalanced number of annotated data. Our results demonstrated the following benefits of FiLM for segmentation: FiLMed U-Net was robust to missing labels and reached higher Dice scores with few labels (up to 16.7%) compared to single-task U-Net. The code is open-source and available at www.ivadomed.org.
Semantic image segmentation aims to obtain object labels with precise boundaries, which usually suffers from overfitting. Recently, various data augmentation strategies like regional dropout and mix strategies have been proposed to address the problem. These strategies have proved to be effective for guiding the model to attend on less discriminative parts. However, current strategies operate at the image level, and objects and the background are coupled. Thus, the boundaries are not well augmented due to the fixed semantic scenario. In this paper, we propose ObjectAug to perform object-level augmentation for semantic image segmentation. ObjectAug first decouples the image into individual objects and the background using the semantic labels. Next, each object is augmented individually with commonly used augmentation methods (e.g., scaling, shifting, and rotation). Then, the black area brought by object augmentation is further restored using image inpainting. Finally, the augmented objects and background are assembled as an augmented image. In this way, the boundaries can be fully explored in the various semantic scenarios. In addition, ObjectAug can support category-aware augmentation that gives various possibilities to objects in each category, and can be easily combined with existing image-level augmentation methods to further boost performance. Comprehensive experiments are conducted on both natural image and medical image datasets. Experiment results demonstrate that our ObjectAug can evidently improve segmentation performance.
The task of image segmentation is inherently noisy due to ambiguities regarding the exact location of boundaries between anatomical structures. We argue that this information can be extracted from the expert annotations at no extra cost, and when integrated into state-of-the-art neural networks, it can lead to improved calibration between soft probabilistic predictions and the underlying uncertainty. We built upon label smoothing (LS) where a network is trained on 'blurred' versions of the ground truth labels which has been shown to be effective for calibrating output predictions. However, LS is not taking the local structure into account and results in overly smoothed predictions with low confidence even for non-ambiguous regions. Here, we propose Spatially Varying Label Smoothing (SVLS), a soft labeling technique that captures the structural uncertainty in semantic segmentation. SVLS also naturally lends itself to incorporate inter-rater uncertainty when multiple labelmaps are available. The proposed approach is extensively validated on four clinical segmentation tasks with different imaging modalities, number of classes and single and multi-rater expert annotations. The results demonstrate that SVLS, despite its simplicity, obtains superior boundary prediction with improved uncertainty and model calibration.
In recent years, deep learning has rapidly become a method of choice for the segmentation of medical images. Deep Neural Network (DNN) architectures such as UNet have achieved state-of-the-art results on many medical datasets. To further improve the performance in the segmentation task, we develop an ensemble system which combines various deep learning architectures. We propose a two-layer ensemble of deep learning models for the segmentation of medical images. The prediction for each training image pixel made by each model in the first layer is used as the augmented data of the training image for the second layer of the ensemble. The prediction of the second layer is then combined by using a weights-based scheme in which each model contributes differently to the combined result. The weights are found by solving linear regression problems. Experiments conducted on two popular medical datasets namely CAMUS and Kvasir-SEG show that the proposed method achieves better results concerning two performance metrics (Dice Coefficient and Hausdorff distance) compared to some well-known benchmark algorithms.
The importance of hierarchical image organization has been witnessed by a wide spectrum of applications in computer vision and graphics. Different from image segmentation with the spatial whole-part consideration, this work designs a modern framework for disassembling an image into a family of derived signals from a scale-space perspective. Specifically, we first offer a formal definition of image disassembly. Then, by concerning desired properties, such as peeling hierarchy and structure preservation, we convert the original complex problem into a series of two-component separation sub-problems, significantly reducing the complexity. The proposed framework is flexible to both supervised and unsupervised settings. A compact recurrent network, namely hierarchical image peeling net, is customized to efficiently and effectively fulfill the task, which is about 3.5Mb in size, and can handle 1080p images in more than 60 fps per recurrence on a GTX 2080Ti GPU, making it attractive for practical use. Both theoretical findings and experimental results are provided to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed framework, reveal its superiority over other state-of-the-art alternatives, and show its potential to various applicable scenarios. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/ForawardStar/HIPe}.
In the recent years, researchers proposed a number of successful methods to perform out-of-distribution (OOD) detection in deep neural networks (DNNs). So far the scope of the highly accurate methods has been limited to image level classification tasks. However, attempts for generally applicable methods beyond classification did not attain similar performance. In this paper, we address this limitation by proposing a simple yet effective task-agnostic OOD detection method. We estimate the probability density functions (pdfs) of intermediate features of a pre-trained DNN by performing kernel density estimation (KDE) on the training dataset. As direct application of KDE to feature maps is hindered by their high dimensionality, we use a set of lower-dimensional marginalized KDE models instead of a single high-dimensional one. At test time, we evaluate the pdfs on a test sample and produce a confidence score that indicates the sample is OOD. The use of KDE eliminates the need for making simplifying assumptions about the underlying feature pdfs and makes the proposed method task-agnostic. We perform extensive experiments on classification tasks using benchmark datasets for OOD detection. Additionally, we perform experiments on medical image segmentation tasks using brain MRI datasets. The results demonstrate that the proposed method consistently achieves high OOD detection performance in both classification and segmentation tasks and improves state-of-the-art in almost all cases. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/eerdil/task_agnostic_ood}
Recently, neural architecture search (NAS) has been applied to automatically search high-performance networks for medical image segmentation. The NAS search space usually contains a network topology level (controlling connections among cells with different spatial scales) and a cell level (operations within each cell). Existing methods either require long searching time for large-scale 3D image datasets, or are limited to pre-defined topologies (such as U-shaped or single-path). In this work, we focus on three important aspects of NAS in 3D medical image segmentation: flexible multi-path network topology, high search efficiency, and budgeted GPU memory usage. A novel differentiable search framework is proposed to support fast gradient-based search within a highly flexible network topology search space. The discretization of the searched optimal continuous model in differentiable scheme may produce a sub-optimal final discrete model (discretization gap). Therefore, we propose a topology loss to alleviate this problem. In addition, the GPU memory usage for the searched 3D model is limited with budget constraints during search. Our Differentiable Network Topology Search scheme (DiNTS) is evaluated on the Medical Segmentation Decathlon (MSD) challenge, which contains ten challenging segmentation tasks. Our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance and the top ranking on the MSD challenge leaderboard.
Conventional deformable registration methods aim at solving an optimization model carefully designed on image pairs and their computational costs are exceptionally high. In contrast, recent deep learning based approaches can provide fast deformation estimation. These heuristic network architectures are fully data-driven and thus lack explicit geometric constraints, e.g., topology-preserving, which are indispensable to generate plausible deformations. We design a new deep learning based framework to optimize a diffeomorphic model via multi-scale propagation in order to integrate advantages and avoid limitations of these two categories of approaches. Specifically, we introduce a generic optimization model to formulate diffeomorphic registration and develop a series of learnable architectures to obtain propagative updating in the coarse-to-fine feature space. Moreover, we propose a novel bilevel self-tuned training strategy, allowing efficient search of task-specific hyper-parameters. This training strategy increases the flexibility to various types of data while reduces computational and human burdens. We conduct two groups of image registration experiments on 3D volume datasets including image-to-atlas registration on brain MRI data and image-to-image registration on liver CT data. Extensive results demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of the proposed method with diffeomorphic guarantee and extreme efficiency. We also apply our framework to challenging multi-modal image registration, and investigate how our registration to support the down-streaming tasks for medical image analysis including multi-modal fusion and image segmentation.
Deep Metric Learning (DML) is helpful in computer vision tasks. In this paper, we firstly introduce DML into image co-segmentation. We propose a novel Triplet loss for Image Segmentation, called IS-Triplet loss for short, and combine it with traditional image segmentation loss. Different from the general DML task which learns the metric between pictures, we treat each pixel as a sample, and use their embedded features in high-dimensional space to form triples, then we tend to force the distance between pixels of different categories greater than of the same category by optimizing IS-Triplet loss so that the pixels from different categories are easier to be distinguished in the high-dimensional feature space. We further present an efficient triple sampling strategy to make a feasible computation of IS-Triplet loss. Finally, the IS-Triplet loss is combined with 3 traditional image segmentation losses to perform image segmentation. We apply the proposed approach to image co-segmentation and test it on the SBCoseg dataset and the Internet dataset. The experimental result shows that our approach can effectively improve the discrimination of pixels' categories in high-dimensional space and thus help traditional loss achieve better performance of image segmentation with fewer training epochs.
One of the problems on the way to successful implementation of neural networks is the quality of annotation. For instance, different annotators can annotate images in a different way and very often their decisions do not match exactly and in extreme cases are even mutually exclusive which results in noisy annotations and, consequently, inaccurate predictions. To avoid that problem in the task of computed tomography (CT) imaging segmentation we propose a clearing algorithm for annotations. It consists of 3 stages: - annotators scoring, which assigns a higher confidence level to better annotators; - nodules scoring, which assigns a higher confidence level to nodules confirmed by good annotators; - nodules merging, which aggregates annotations according to nodules confidence. In general, the algorithm can be applied to many different tasks (namely, binary and multi-class semantic segmentation, and also with trivial adjustments to classification and regression) where there are several annotators labeling each image.
We propose a novel method for learning convolutional neural image representations without manual supervision. We use motion cues in the form of optical flow, to supervise representations of static images. The obvious approach of training a network to predict flow from a single image can be needlessly difficult due to intrinsic ambiguities in this prediction task. We instead propose a much simpler learning goal: embed pixels such that the similarity between their embeddings matches that between their optical flow vectors. At test time, the learned deep network can be used without access to video or flow information and transferred to tasks such as image classification, detection, and segmentation. Our method, which significantly simplifies previous attempts at using motion for self-supervision, achieves state-of-the-art results in self-supervision using motion cues, competitive results for self-supervision in general, and is overall state of the art in self-supervised pretraining for semantic image segmentation, as demonstrated on standard benchmarks.
One of the time-consuming routine work for a radiologist is to discern anatomical structures from tomographic images. For assisting radiologists, this paper develops an automatic segmentation method for pelvic magnetic resonance (MR) images. The task has three major challenges 1) A pelvic organ can have various sizes and shapes depending on the axial image, which requires local contexts to segment correctly. 2) Different organs often have quite similar appearance in MR images, which requires global context to segment. 3) The number of available annotated images are very small to use the latest segmentation algorithms. To address the challenges, we propose a novel convolutional neural network called Attention-Pyramid network (APNet) that effectively exploits both local and global contexts, in addition to a data-augmentation technique that is particularly effective for MR images. In order to evaluate our method, we construct fine-grained (50 pelvic organs) MR image segmentation dataset, and experimentally confirm the superior performance of our techniques over the state-of-the-art image segmentation methods.
Convolutional networks (ConvNets) have achieved great successes in various challenging vision tasks. However, the performance of ConvNets would degrade when encountering the domain shift. The domain adaptation is more significant while challenging in the field of biomedical image analysis, where cross-modality data have largely different distributions. Given that annotating the medical data is especially expensive, the supervised transfer learning approaches are not quite optimal. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised domain adaptation framework with adversarial learning for cross-modality biomedical image segmentations. Specifically, our model is based on a dilated fully convolutional network for pixel-wise prediction. Moreover, we build a plug-and-play domain adaptation module (DAM) to map the target input to features which are aligned with source domain feature space. A domain critic module (DCM) is set up for discriminating the feature space of both domains. We optimize the DAM and DCM via an adversarial loss without using any target domain label. Our proposed method is validated by adapting a ConvNet trained with MRI images to unpaired CT data for cardiac structures segmentations, and achieved very promising results.
Automatic parsing of anatomical objects in X-ray images is critical to many clinical applications in particular towards image-guided invention and workflow automation. Existing deep network models require a large amount of labeled data. However, obtaining accurate pixel-wise labeling in X-ray images relies heavily on skilled clinicians due to the large overlaps of anatomy and the complex texture patterns. On the other hand, organs in 3D CT scans preserve clearer structures as well as sharper boundaries and thus can be easily delineated. In this paper, we propose a novel model framework for learning automatic X-ray image parsing from labeled CT scans. Specifically, a Dense Image-to-Image network (DI2I) for multi-organ segmentation is first trained on X-ray like Digitally Reconstructed Radiographs (DRRs) rendered from 3D CT volumes. Then we introduce a Task Driven Generative Adversarial Network (TD-GAN) architecture to achieve simultaneous style transfer and parsing for unseen real X-ray images. TD-GAN consists of a modified cycle-GAN substructure for pixel-to-pixel translation between DRRs and X-ray images and an added module leveraging the pre-trained DI2I to enforce segmentation consistency. The TD-GAN framework is general and can be easily adapted to other learning tasks. In the numerical experiments, we validate the proposed model on 815 DRRs and 153 topograms. While the vanilla DI2I without any adaptation fails completely on segmenting the topograms, the proposed model does not require any topogram labels and is able to provide a promising average dice of 85% which achieves the same level accuracy of supervised training (88%).
Hourglass networks such as the U-Net and V-Net are popular neural architectures for medical image segmentation and counting problems. Typical instances of hourglass networks contain shortcut connections between mirroring layers. These shortcut connections improve the performance and it is hypothesized that this is due to mitigating effects on the vanishing gradient problem and the ability of the model to combine feature maps from earlier and later layers. We propose a method for not only combining feature maps of mirroring layers but also feature maps of layers with different spatial dimensions. For instance, the method enables the integration of the bottleneck feature map with those of the reconstruction layers. The proposed approach is applicable to any hourglass architecture. We evaluated the contextual hourglass networks on image segmentation and object counting problems in the medical domain. We achieve competitive results outperforming popular hourglass networks by up to 17 percentage points.
In recent years, deep learning (DL) methods have become powerful tools for biomedical image segmentation. However, high annotation efforts and costs are commonly needed to acquire sufficient biomedical training data for DL models. To alleviate the burden of manual annotation, in this paper, we propose a new weakly supervised DL approach for biomedical image segmentation using boxes only annotation. First, we develop a method to combine graph search (GS) and DL to generate fine object masks from box annotation, in which DL uses box annotation to compute a rough segmentation for GS and then GS is applied to locate the optimal object boundaries. During the mask generation process, we carefully utilize information from box annotation to filter out potential errors, and then use the generated masks to train an accurate DL segmentation network. Extensive experiments on gland segmentation in histology images, lymph node segmentation in ultrasound images, and fungus segmentation in electron microscopy images show that our approach attains superior performance over the best known state-of-the-art weakly supervised DL method and is able to achieve (1) nearly the same accuracy compared to fully supervised DL methods with far less annotation effort, (2) significantly better results with similar annotation time, and (3) robust performance in various applications.
Many deep learning architectures for semantic segmentation involve a Fully Convolutional Neural Network (FCN) followed by a Conditional Random Field (CRF) to carry out inference over an image. These models typically involve unary potentials based on local appearance features computed by FCNs, and binary potentials based on the displacement between pixels. We show that while current methods succeed in segmenting whole objects, they perform poorly in situations involving a large number of object parts. We therefore suggest incorporating into the inference algorithm additional higher-order potentials inspired by the way humans identify and localize parts. We incorporate two relations that were shown to be useful to human object identification - containment and attachment - into the energy term of the CRF and evaluate their performance on the Pascal VOC Parts dataset. Our experimental results show that the segmentation of fine parts is positively affected by the addition of these two relations, and that the segmentation of fine parts can be further influenced by complex structural features.
We introduce a new multi-dimensional nonlinear embedding -- Piecewise Flat Embedding (PFE) -- for image segmentation. Based on the theory of sparse signal recovery, piecewise flat embedding with diverse channels attempts to recover a piecewise constant image representation with sparse region boundaries and sparse cluster value scattering. The resultant piecewise flat embedding exhibits interesting properties such as suppressing slowly varying signals, and offers an image representation with higher region identifiability which is desirable for image segmentation or high-level semantic analysis tasks. We formulate our embedding as a variant of the Laplacian Eigenmap embedding with an $L_{1,p} (0<p\leq1)$ regularization term to promote sparse solutions. First, we devise a two-stage numerical algorithm based on Bregman iterations to compute $L_{1,1}$-regularized piecewise flat embeddings. We further generalize this algorithm through iterative reweighting to solve the general $L_{1,p}$-regularized problem. To demonstrate its efficacy, we integrate PFE into two existing image segmentation frameworks, segmentation based on clustering and hierarchical segmentation based on contour detection. Experiments on four major benchmark datasets, BSDS500, MSRC, Stanford Background Dataset, and PASCAL Context, show that segmentation algorithms incorporating our embedding achieve significantly improved results.
State-of-the-art semantic segmentation approaches increase the receptive field of their models by using either a downsampling path composed of poolings/strided convolutions or successive dilated convolutions. However, it is not clear which operation leads to best results. In this paper, we systematically study the differences introduced by distinct receptive field enlargement methods and their impact on the performance of a novel architecture, called Fully Convolutional DenseResNet (FC-DRN). FC-DRN has a densely connected backbone composed of residual networks. Following standard image segmentation architectures, receptive field enlargement operations that change the representation level are interleaved among residual networks. This allows the model to exploit the benefits of both residual and dense connectivity patterns, namely: gradient flow, iterative refinement of representations, multi-scale feature combination and deep supervision. In order to highlight the potential of our model, we test it on the challenging CamVid urban scene understanding benchmark and make the following observations: 1) downsampling operations outperform dilations when the model is trained from scratch, 2) dilations are useful during the finetuning step of the model, 3) coarser representations require less refinement steps, and 4) ResNets (by model construction) are good regularizers, since they can reduce the model capacity when needed. Finally, we compare our architecture to alternative methods and report state-of-the-art result on the Camvid dataset, with at least twice fewer parameters.
We introduce the concept of derivate-based component-trees for images with an arbitrary number of channels. The approach is a natural extension of the classical component-tree devoted to gray-scale images. The similar structure enables the translation of many gray-level image processing techniques based on the component-tree to hyperspectral and color images. As an example application, we present an image segmentation approach that extracts Maximally Stable Homogeneous Regions (MSHR). The approach very similar to MSER but can be applied to images with an arbitrary number of channels. As opposed to MSER, our approach implicitly segments regions with are both lighter and darker than their background for gray-scale images and can be used in OCR applications where MSER will fail. We introduce a local flooding-based immersion for the derivate-based component-tree construction which is linear in the number of pixels. In the experiments, we show that the runtime scales favorably with an increasing number of channels and may improve algorithms which build on MSER.
Compared to the general semantic segmentation problem, portrait segmentation has higher precision requirement on boundary area. However, this problem has not been well studied in previous works. In this paper, we propose a boundary-sensitive deep neural network (BSN) for portrait segmentation. BSN introduces three novel techniques. First, an individual boundary-sensitive kernel is proposed by dilating the contour line and assigning the boundary pixels with multi-class labels. Second, a global boundary-sensitive kernel is employed as a position sensitive prior to further constrain the overall shape of the segmentation map. Third, we train a boundary-sensitive attribute classifier jointly with the segmentation network to reinforce the network with semantic boundary shape information. We have evaluated BSN on the current largest public portrait segmentation dataset, i.e, the PFCN dataset, as well as the portrait images collected from other three popular image segmentation datasets: COCO, COCO-Stuff, and PASCAL VOC. Our method achieves the superior quantitative and qualitative performance over state-of-the-arts on all the datasets, especially on the boundary area.
Examining locomotion has improved our basic understanding of motor control and aided in treating motor impairment. Mice and rats are the model system of choice for basic neuroscience studies of human disease. High frame rates are needed to quantify the kinematics of running rodents, due to their high stride frequency. Manual tracking, especially for multiple body landmarks, becomes extremely time-consuming. To overcome these limitations, we proposed the use of superpixels based image segmentation as superpixels utilized both spatial and color information for segmentation. We segmented some parts of body and tested the success of segmentation as a function of color space and SLIC segment size. We used a simple merging function to connect the segmented regions considered as neighbor and having the same intensity value range. In addition, 28 features were extracted, and t-SNE was used to demonstrate how much the methods are capable to differentiate the regions. Finally, we compared the segmented regions to a manually outlined region. The results showed for segmentation, using the RGB image was slightly better compared to the hue channel. For merg- ing and classification, however, the hue representation was better as it captures the relevant color information in a single channel.
One of the most common tasks in medical imaging is semantic segmentation. Achieving this segmentation automatically has been an active area of research, but the task has been proven very challenging due to the large variation of anatomy across different patients. However, recent advances in deep learning have made it possible to significantly improve the performance of image recognition and semantic segmentation methods in the field of computer vision. Due to the data driven approaches of hierarchical feature learning in deep learning frameworks, these advances can be translated to medical images without much difficulty. Several variations of deep convolutional neural networks have been successfully applied to medical images. Especially fully convolutional architectures have been proven efficient for segmentation of 3D medical images. In this article, we describe how to build a 3D fully convolutional network (FCN) that can process 3D images in order to produce automatic semantic segmentations. The model is trained and evaluated on a clinical computed tomography (CT) dataset and shows state-of-the-art performance in multi-organ segmentation.
State-of-the-art systems for semantic image segmentation use feed-forward pipelines with fixed computational costs. Building an image segmentation system that works across a range of computational budgets is challenging and time-intensive as new architectures must be designed and trained for every computational setting. To address this problem we develop a recurrent neural network that successively improves prediction quality with each iteration. Importantly, the RNN may be deployed across a range of computational budgets by merely running the model for a variable number of iterations. We find that this architecture is uniquely suited for efficiently segmenting videos. By exploiting the segmentation of past frames, the RNN can perform video segmentation at similar quality but reduced computational cost compared to state-of-the-art image segmentation methods. When applied to static images in the PASCAL VOC 2012 and Cityscapes segmentation datasets, the RNN traces out a speed-accuracy curve that saturates near the performance of state-of-the-art segmentation methods.
Robust cross-seasonal localization is one of the major challenges in long-term visual navigation of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we exploit recent advances in semantic segmentation of images, i.e., where each pixel is assigned a label related to the type of object it represents, to attack the problem of long-term visual localization. We show that semantically labeled 3-D point maps of the environment, together with semantically segmented images, can be efficiently used for vehicle localization without the need for detailed feature descriptors (SIFT, SURF, etc.). Thus, instead of depending on hand-crafted feature descriptors, we rely on the training of an image segmenter. The resulting map takes up much less storage space compared to a traditional descriptor based map. A particle filter based semantic localization solution is compared to one based on SIFT-features, and even with large seasonal variations over the year we perform on par with the larger and more descriptive SIFT-features, and are able to localize with an error below 1 m most of the time.
Deep neural networks have been successfully applied to problems such as image segmentation, image super-resolution, coloration and image inpainting. In this work we propose the use of convolutional neural networks (CNN) for image inpainting of large regions in high-resolution textures. Due to limited computational resources processing high-resolution images with neural networks is still an open problem. Existing methods separate inpainting of global structure and the transfer of details, which leads to blurry results and loss of global coherence in the detail transfer step. Based on advances in texture synthesis using CNNs we propose patch-based image inpainting by a CNN that is able to optimize for global as well as detail texture statistics. Our method is capable of filling large inpainting regions, oftentimes exceeding the quality of comparable methods for high-resolution images. For reference patch look-up we propose to use the same summary statistics that are used in the inpainting process.
Deep convolutional networks for semantic image segmentation typically require large-scale labeled data, e.g. ImageNet and MS COCO, for network pre-training. To reduce annotation efforts, self-supervised semantic segmentation is recently proposed to pre-train a network without any human-provided labels. The key of this new form of learning is to design a proxy task (e.g. image colorization), from which a discriminative loss can be formulated on unlabeled data. Many proxy tasks, however, lack the critical supervision signals that could induce discriminative representation for the target image segmentation task. Thus self-supervision's performance is still far from that of supervised pre-training. In this study, we overcome this limitation by incorporating a "mix-and-match" (M&M) tuning stage in the self-supervision pipeline. The proposed approach is readily pluggable to many self-supervision methods and does not use more annotated samples than the original process. Yet, it is capable of boosting the performance of target image segmentation task to surpass fully-supervised pre-trained counterpart. The improvement is made possible by better harnessing the limited pixel-wise annotations in the target dataset. Specifically, we first introduce the "mix" stage, which sparsely samples and mixes patches from the target set to reflect rich and diverse local patch statistics of target images. A "match" stage then forms a class-wise connected graph, which can be used to derive a strong triplet-based discriminative loss for fine-tuning the network. Our paradigm follows the standard practice in existing self-supervised studies and no extra data or label is required. With the proposed M&M approach, for the first time, a
Deep fully convolutional neural network (FCN) based architectures have shown great potential in medical image segmentation. However, such architectures usually have millions of parameters and inadequate number of training samples leading to over-fitting and poor generalization. In this paper, we present a novel highly parameter and memory efficient FCN based architecture for medical image analysis. We propose a novel up-sampling path which incorporates long skip and short-cut connections to overcome the feature map explosion in FCN like architectures. In order to processes the input images at multiple scales and view points simultaneously, we propose to incorporate Inception module's parallel structures. We also propose a novel dual loss function whose weighting scheme allows to combine advantages of cross-entropy and dice loss. We have validated our proposed network architecture on two publicly available datasets, namely: (i) Automated Cardiac Disease Diagnosis Challenge (ACDC-2017), (ii) Left Ventricular Segmentation Challenge (LV-2011). Our approach in ACDC-2017 challenge stands second place for segmentation and first place in automated cardiac disease diagnosis tasks with an accuracy of 100%. In the LV-2011 challenge our approach attained 0.74 Jaccard index, which is so far the highest published result in fully automated algorithms. From the segmentation we extracted clinically relevant cardiac parameters and hand-crafted features which reflected the clinical diagnostic analysis to train an ensemble system for cardiac disease classification. Our approach combined both cardiac segmentation and disease diagnosis into a fully automated framework which is computational efficient and hence has the potential to be incorporated in computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) tools
In this paper we present our system for human-in-the-loop video object segmentation. The backbone of our system is a method for one-shot video object segmentation. While fast, this method requires an accurate pixel-level segmentation of one (or several) frames as input. As manually annotating such a segmentation is impractical, we propose a deep interactive image segmentation method, that can accurately segment objects with only a handful of clicks. On the GrabCut dataset, our method obtains 90% IOU with just 3.8 clicks on average, setting the new state of the art. Furthermore, as our method iteratively refines an initial segmentation, it can effectively correct frames where the video object segmentation fails, thus allowing users to quickly obtain high quality results even on challenging sequences. Finally, we investigate usage patterns and give insights in how many steps users take to annotate frames, what kind of corrections they provide, etc., thus giving important insights for further improving interactive video segmentation.
The most common paradigm for vision-based multi-object tracking is tracking-by-detection, due to the availability of reliable detectors for several important object categories such as cars and pedestrians. However, future mobile systems will need a capability to cope with rich human-made environments, in which obtaining detectors for every possible object category would be infeasible. In this paper, we propose a model-free multi-object tracking approach that uses a category-agnostic image segmentation method to track objects. We present an efficient segmentation mask-based tracker which associates pixel-precise masks reported by the segmentation. Our approach can utilize semantic information whenever it is available for classifying objects at the track level, while retaining the capability to track generic unknown objects in the absence of such information. We demonstrate experimentally that our approach achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art tracking-by-detection methods for popular object categories such as cars and pedestrians. Additionally, we show that the proposed method can discover and robustly track a large variety of other objects.
In this work, we revisit atrous convolution, a powerful tool to explicitly adjust filter's field-of-view as well as control the resolution of feature responses computed by Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, in the application of semantic image segmentation. To handle the problem of segmenting objects at multiple scales, we design modules which employ atrous convolution in cascade or in parallel to capture multi-scale context by adopting multiple atrous rates. Furthermore, we propose to augment our previously proposed Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling module, which probes convolutional features at multiple scales, with image-level features encoding global context and further boost performance. We also elaborate on implementation details and share our experience on training our system. The proposed `DeepLabv3' system significantly improves over our previous DeepLab versions without DenseCRF post-processing and attains comparable performance with other state-of-art models on the PASCAL VOC 2012 semantic image segmentation benchmark.
There has been a significant increase from 2010 to 2016 in the number of people suffering from spine problems. The automatic image segmentation of the spine obtained from a computed tomography (CT) image is important for diagnosing spine conditions and for performing surgery with computer-assisted surgery systems. The spine has a complex anatomy that consists of 33 vertebrae, 23 intervertebral disks, the spinal cord, and connecting ribs. As a result, the spinal surgeon is faced with the challenge of needing a robust algorithm to segment and create a model of the spine. In this study, we developed an automatic segmentation method to segment the spine, and we compared our segmentation results with reference segmentations obtained by experts. We developed a fully automatic approach for spine segmentation from CT based on a hybrid method. This method combines the convolutional neural network (CNN) and fully convolutional network (FCN), and utilizes class redundancy as a soft constraint to greatly improve the segmentation results. The proposed method was found to significantly enhance the accuracy of the segmentation results and the system processing time. Our comparison was based on 12 measurements: the Dice coefficient (94%), Jaccard index (93%), volumetric similarity (96%), sensitivity (97%), specificity (99%), precision (over segmentation; 8.3 and under segmentation 2.6), accuracy (99%), Matthews correlation coefficient (0.93), mean surface distance (0.16 mm), Hausdorff distance (7.4 mm), and global consistency error (0.02). We experimented with CT images from 32 patients, and the experimental results demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed method.
Convolutional neural networks have shown great success on feature extraction from raw input data such as images. Although convolutional neural networks are invariant to translations on the inputs, they are not invariant to other transformations, including rotation and flip. Recent attempts have been made to incorporate more invariance in image recognition applications, but they are not applicable to dense prediction tasks, such as image segmentation. In this paper, we propose a set of methods based on kernel rotation and flip to enable rotation and flip invariance in convolutional neural networks. The kernel rotation can be achieved on kernels of 3 $\times$ 3, while kernel flip can be applied on kernels of any size. By rotating in eight or four angles, the convolutional layers could produce the corresponding number of feature maps based on eight or four different kernels. By using flip, the convolution layer can produce three feature maps. By combining produced feature maps using maxout, the resource requirement could be significantly reduced while still retain the invariance properties. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed methods can achieve various invariance at reasonable resource requirements in terms of both memory and time.
Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been shown to perform extremely well at a variety of tasks including subtasks of autonomous driving such as image segmentation and object classification. However, networks designed for these tasks typically require vast quantities of training data and long training periods to converge. We investigate the design rationale behind end-to-end driving network designs by proposing and comparing three small and computationally inexpensive deep end-to-end neural network models that generate driving control signals directly from input images. In contrast to prior work that segments the autonomous driving task, our models take on a novel approach to the autonomous driving problem by utilizing deep and thin Fully Convolutional Nets (FCNs) with recurrent neural nets and low parameter counts to tackle a complex end-to-end regression task predicting both steering and acceleration commands. In addition, we include layers optimized for classification to allow the networks to implicitly learn image semantics. We show that the resulting networks use 3x fewer parameters than the most recent comparable end-to-end driving network and 500x fewer parameters than the AlexNet variations and converge both faster and to lower losses while maintaining robustness against overfitting.
State-of-the-art approaches for semantic image segmentation are built on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). The typical segmentation architecture is composed of (a) a downsampling path responsible for extracting coarse semantic features, followed by (b) an upsampling path trained to recover the input image resolution at the output of the model and, optionally, (c) a post-processing module (e.g. Conditional Random Fields) to refine the model predictions. Recently, a new CNN architecture, Densely Connected Convolutional Networks (DenseNets), has shown excellent results on image classification tasks. The idea of DenseNets is based on the observation that if each layer is directly connected to every other layer in a feed-forward fashion then the network will be more accurate and easier to train. In this paper, we extend DenseNets to deal with the problem of semantic segmentation. We achieve state-of-the-art results on urban scene benchmark datasets such as CamVid and Gatech, without any further post-processing module nor pretraining. Moreover, due to smart construction of the model, our approach has much less parameters than currently published best entries for these datasets. Code to reproduce the experiments is available here : https://github.com/SimJeg/FC-DenseNet/blob/master/train.py
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have achieved state-of-the-art performance for automatic medical image segmentation. However, they have not demonstrated sufficiently accurate and robust results for clinical use. In addition, they are limited by the lack of image-specific adaptation and the lack of generalizability to previously unseen object classes. To address these problems, we propose a novel deep learning-based framework for interactive segmentation by incorporating CNNs into a bounding box and scribble-based segmentation pipeline. We propose image-specific fine-tuning to make a CNN model adaptive to a specific test image, which can be either unsupervised (without additional user interactions) or supervised (with additional scribbles). We also propose a weighted loss function considering network and interaction-based uncertainty for the fine-tuning. We applied this framework to two applications: 2D segmentation of multiple organs from fetal MR slices, where only two types of these organs were annotated for training; and 3D segmentation of brain tumor core (excluding edema) and whole brain tumor (including edema) from different MR sequences, where only tumor cores in one MR sequence were annotated for training. Experimental results show that 1) our model is more robust to segment previously unseen objects than state-of-the-art CNNs; 2) image-specific fine-tuning with the proposed weighted loss function significantly improves segmentation accuracy; and 3) our method leads to accurate results with fewer user interactions and less user time than traditional interactive segmentation methods.
In this paper, we propose spatial propagation networks for learning the affinity matrix for vision tasks. We show that by constructing a row/column linear propagation model, the spatially varying transformation matrix exactly constitutes an affinity matrix that models dense, global pairwise relationships of an image. Specifically, we develop a three-way connection for the linear propagation model, which (a) formulates a sparse transformation matrix, where all elements can be the output from a deep CNN, but (b) results in a dense affinity matrix that effectively models any task-specific pairwise similarity matrix. Instead of designing the similarity kernels according to image features of two points, we can directly output all the similarities in a purely data-driven manner. The spatial propagation network is a generic framework that can be applied to many affinity-related tasks, including but not limited to image matting, segmentation and colorization, to name a few. Essentially, the model can learn semantically-aware affinity values for high-level vision tasks due to the powerful learning capability of the deep neural network classifier. We validate the framework on the task of refinement for image segmentation boundaries. Experiments on the HELEN face parsing and PASCAL VOC-2012 semantic segmentation tasks show that the spatial propagation network provides a general, effective and efficient solution for generating high-quality segmentation results.
For complex segmentation tasks, fully automatic systems are inherently limited in their achievable accuracy for extracting relevant objects. Especially in cases where only few data sets need to be processed for a highly accurate result, semi-automatic segmentation techniques exhibit a clear benefit for the user. One area of application is medical image processing during an intervention for a single patient. We propose a learning-based cooperative segmentation approach which includes the computing entity as well as the user into the task. Our system builds upon a state-of-the-art fully convolutional artificial neural network (FCN) as well as an active user model for training. During the segmentation process, a user of the trained system can iteratively add additional hints in form of pictorial scribbles as seed points into the FCN system to achieve an interactive and precise segmentation result. The segmentation quality of interactive FCNs is evaluated. Iterative FCN approaches can yield superior results compared to networks without the user input channel component, due to a consistent improvement in segmentation quality after each interaction.
In this paper, we cast the scribble-based interactive image segmentation as a semi-supervised learning problem. Our novel approach alleviates the need to solve an expensive generalized eigenvector problem by approximating the eigenvectors using efficiently computed eigenfunctions. The smoothness operator defined on feature densities at the limit n tends to infinity recovers the exact eigenvectors of the graph Laplacian, where n is the number of nodes in the graph. To further reduce the computational complexity without scarifying our accuracy, we select pivots pixels from user annotations. In our experiments, we evaluate our approach using both human scribble and "robot user" annotations to guide the foreground/background segmentation. We developed a new unbiased collection of five annotated images datasets to standardize the evaluation procedure for any scribble-based segmentation method. We experimented with several variations, including different feature vectors, pivot count and the number of eigenvectors. Experiments are carried out on datasets that contain a wide variety of natural images. We achieve better qualitative and quantitative results compared to state-of-the-art interactive segmentation algorithms.
Learning rich and diverse representations is critical for the performance of deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). In this paper, we consider how to use privileged information to promote inherent diversity of a single CNN model such that the model can learn better representations and offer stronger generalization ability. To this end, we propose a novel group orthogonal convolutional neural network (GoCNN) that learns untangled representations within each layer by exploiting provided privileged information and enhances representation diversity effectively. We take image classification as an example where image segmentation annotations are used as privileged information during the training process. Experiments on two benchmark datasets -- ImageNet and PASCAL VOC -- clearly demonstrate the strong generalization ability of our proposed GoCNN model. On the ImageNet dataset, GoCNN improves the performance of state-of-the-art ResNet-152 model by absolute value of 1.2% while only uses privileged information of 10% of the training images, confirming effectiveness of GoCNN on utilizing available privileged knowledge to train better CNNs.
This manuscript introduces the problem of prominent object detection and recognition inspired by the fact that human seems to priorities perception of scene elements. The problem deals with finding the most important region of interest, segmenting the relevant item/object in that area, and assigning it an object class label. In other words, we are solving the three problems of saliency modeling, saliency detection, and object recognition under one umbrella. The motivation behind such a problem formulation is (1) the benefits to the knowledge representation-based vision pipelines, and (2) the potential improvements in emulating bio-inspired vision systems by solving these three problems together. We are foreseeing extending this problem formulation to fully semantically segmented scenes with instance object priority for high-level inferences in various applications including assistive vision. Along with a new problem definition, we also propose a method to achieve such a task. The proposed model predicts the most important area in the image, segments the associated objects, and labels them. The proposed problem and method are evaluated against human fixations, annotated segmentation masks, and object class categories. We define a chance level for each of the evaluation criterion to compare the proposed algorithm with. Despite the good performance of the proposed baseline, the overall evaluations indicate that the problem of prominent object detection and recognition is a challenging task that is still worth investigating further.
Convolutional neural networks have been applied to a wide variety of computer vision tasks. Recent advances in semantic segmentation have enabled their application to medical image segmentation. While most CNNs use two-dimensional kernels, recent CNN-based publications on medical image segmentation featured three-dimensional kernels, allowing full access to the three-dimensional structure of medical images. Though closely related to semantic segmentation, medical image segmentation includes specific challenges that need to be addressed, such as the scarcity of labelled data, the high class imbalance found in the ground truth and the high memory demand of three-dimensional images. In this work, a CNN-based method with three-dimensional filters is demonstrated and applied to hand and brain MRI. Two modifications to an existing CNN architecture are discussed, along with methods on addressing the aforementioned challenges. While most of the existing literature on medical image segmentation focuses on soft tissue and the major organs, this work is validated on data both from the central nervous system as well as the bones of the hand.
Inspired by classic generative adversarial networks (GAN), we propose a novel end-to-end adversarial neural network, called SegAN, for the task of medical image segmentation. Since image segmentation requires dense, pixel-level labeling, the single scalar real/fake output of a classic GAN's discriminator may be ineffective in producing stable and sufficient gradient feedback to the networks. Instead, we use a fully convolutional neural network as the segmentor to generate segmentation label maps, and propose a novel adversarial critic network with a multi-scale $L_1$ loss function to force the critic and segmentor to learn both global and local features that capture long- and short-range spatial relationships between pixels. In our SegAN framework, the segmentor and critic networks are trained in an alternating fashion in a min-max game: The critic takes as input a pair of images, (original_image $*$ predicted_label_map, original_image $*$ ground_truth_label_map), and then is trained by maximizing a multi-scale loss function; The segmentor is trained with only gradients passed along by the critic, with the aim to minimize the multi-scale loss function. We show that such a SegAN framework is more effective and stable for the segmentation task, and it leads to better performance than the state-of-the-art U-net segmentation method. We tested our SegAN method using datasets from the MICCAI BRATS brain tumor segmentation challenge. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed SegAN with multi-scale loss: on BRATS 2013 SegAN gives performance comparable to the state-of-the-art for whole tumor and tumor core segmentation while achieves better precision and sensitivity for
This paper presents a robust regression approach for image binarization under significant background variations and observation noises. The work is motivated by the need of identifying foreground regions in noisy microscopic image or degraded document images, where significant background variation and severe noise make an image binarization challenging. The proposed method first estimates the background of an input image, subtracts the estimated background from the input image, and apply a global thresholding to the subtracted outcome for achieving a binary image of foregrounds. A robust regression approach was proposed to estimate the background intensity surface with minimal effects of foreground intensities and noises, and a global threshold selector was proposed on the basis of a model selection criterion in a sparse regression. The proposed approach was validated using 26 test images and the corresponding ground truths, and the outcomes of the proposed work were compared with those from nine existing image binarization methods. The approach was also combined with three state-of-the-art morphological segmentation methods to show how the proposed approach can improve their image segmentation outcomes.
Image segmentation is a fundamental problem in biomedical image analysis. Recent advances in deep learning have achieved promising results on many biomedical image segmentation benchmarks. However, due to large variations in biomedical images (different modalities, image settings, objects, noise, etc), to utilize deep learning on a new application, it usually needs a new set of training data. This can incur a great deal of annotation effort and cost, because only biomedical experts can annotate effectively, and often there are too many instances in images (e.g., cells) to annotate. In this paper, we aim to address the following question: With limited effort (e.g., time) for annotation, what instances should be annotated in order to attain the best performance? We present a deep active learning framework that combines fully convolutional network (FCN) and active learning to significantly reduce annotation effort by making judicious suggestions on the most effective annotation areas. We utilize uncertainty and similarity information provided by FCN and formulate a generalized version of the maximum set cover problem to determine the most representative and uncertain areas for annotation. Extensive experiments using the 2015 MICCAI Gland Challenge dataset and a lymph node ultrasound image segmentation dataset show that, using annotation suggestions by our method, state-of-the-art segmentation performance can be achieved by using only 50% of training data.
The key idea of current deep learning methods for dense prediction is to apply a model on a regular patch centered on each pixel to make pixel-wise predictions. These methods are limited in the sense that the patches are determined by network architecture instead of learned from data. In this work, we propose the dense transformer networks, which can learn the shapes and sizes of patches from data. The dense transformer networks employ an encoder-decoder architecture, and a pair of dense transformer modules are inserted into each of the encoder and decoder paths. The novelty of this work is that we provide technical solutions for learning the shapes and sizes of patches from data and efficiently restoring the spatial correspondence required for dense prediction. The proposed dense transformer modules are differentiable, thus the entire network can be trained. We apply the proposed networks on natural and biological image segmentation tasks and show superior performance is achieved in comparison to baseline methods.
Most current semantic segmentation methods rely on fully convolutional networks (FCNs). However, their use of large receptive fields and many pooling layers cause low spatial resolution inside the deep layers. This leads to predictions with poor localization around the boundaries. Prior work has attempted to address this issue by post-processing predictions with CRFs or MRFs. But such models often fail to capture semantic relationships between objects, which causes spatially disjoint predictions. To overcome these problems, recent methods integrated CRFs or MRFs into an FCN framework. The downside of these new models is that they have much higher complexity than traditional FCNs, which renders training and testing more challenging. In this work we introduce a simple, yet effective Convolutional Random Walk Network (RWN) that addresses the issues of poor boundary localization and spatially fragmented predictions with very little increase in model complexity. Our proposed RWN jointly optimizes the objectives of pixelwise affinity and semantic segmentation. It combines these two objectives via a novel random walk layer that enforces consistent spatial grouping in the deep layers of the network. Our RWN is implemented using standard convolution and matrix multiplication. This allows an easy integration into existing FCN frameworks and it enables end-to-end training of the whole network via standard back-propagation. Our implementation of RWN requires just $131$ additional parameters compared to the traditional FCNs, and yet it consistently produces an improvement over the FCNs on semantic segmentation and scene labeling.
We propose a novel superpixel-based multi-view convolutional neural network for semantic image segmentation. The proposed network produces a high quality segmentation of a single image by leveraging information from additional views of the same scene. Particularly in indoor videos such as captured by robotic platforms or handheld and bodyworn RGBD cameras, nearby video frames provide diverse viewpoints and additional context of objects and scenes. To leverage such information, we first compute region correspondences by optical flow and image boundary-based superpixels. Given these region correspondences, we propose a novel spatio-temporal pooling layer to aggregate information over space and time. We evaluate our approach on the NYU--Depth--V2 and the SUN3D datasets and compare it to various state-of-the-art single-view and multi-view approaches. Besides a general improvement over the state-of-the-art, we also show the benefits of making use of unlabeled frames during training for multi-view as well as single-view prediction.
We introduce a novel loss max-pooling concept for handling imbalanced training data distributions, applicable as alternative loss layer in the context of deep neural networks for semantic image segmentation. Most real-world semantic segmentation datasets exhibit long tail distributions with few object categories comprising the majority of data and consequently biasing the classifiers towards them. Our method adaptively re-weights the contributions of each pixel based on their observed losses, targeting under-performing classification results as often encountered for under-represented object classes. Our approach goes beyond conventional cost-sensitive learning attempts through adaptive considerations that allow us to indirectly address both, inter- and intra-class imbalances. We provide a theoretical justification of our approach, complementary to experimental analyses on benchmark datasets. In our experiments on the Cityscapes and Pascal VOC 2012 segmentation datasets we find consistently improved results, demonstrating the efficacy of our approach.
Paleness or pallor is a manifestation of blood loss or low hemoglobin concentrations in the human blood that can be caused by pathologies such as anemia. This work presents the first automated screening system that utilizes pallor site images, segments, and extracts color and intensity-based features for multi-class classification of patients with high pallor due to anemia-like pathologies, normal patients and patients with other abnormalities. This work analyzes the pallor sites of conjunctiva and tongue for anemia screening purposes. First, for the eye pallor site images, the sclera and conjunctiva regions are automatically segmented for regions of interest. Similarly, for the tongue pallor site images, the inner and outer tongue regions are segmented. Then, color-plane based feature extraction is performed followed by machine learning algorithms for feature reduction and image level classification for anemia. In this work, a suite of classification algorithms image-level classifications for normal (class 0), pallor (class 1) and other abnormalities (class 2). The proposed method achieves 86% accuracy, 85% precision and 67% recall in eye pallor site images and 98.2% accuracy and precision with 100% recall in tongue pallor site images for classification of images with pallor. The proposed pallor screening system can be further fine-tuned to detect the severity of anemia-like pathologies using controlled set of local images that can then be used for future benchmarking purposes.
Mandible bone segmentation from computed tomography (CT) scans is challenging due to mandible's structural irregularities, complex shape patterns, and lack of contrast in joints. Furthermore, connections of teeth to mandible and mandible to remaining parts of the skull make it extremely difficult to identify mandible boundary automatically. This study addresses these challenges by proposing a novel framework where we define the segmentation as two complementary tasks: recognition and delineation. For recognition, we use random forest regression to localize mandible in 3D. For delineation, we propose to use 3D gradient-based fuzzy connectedness (FC) image segmentation algorithm, operating on the recognized mandible sub-volume. Despite heavy CT artifacts and dental fillings, consisting half of the CT image data in our experiments, we have achieved highly accurate detection and delineation results. Specifically, detection accuracy more than 96% (measured by union of intersection (UoI)), the delineation accuracy of 91% (measured by dice similarity coefficient), and less than 1 mm in shape mismatch (Hausdorff Distance) were found.
Several supermodular losses have been shown to improve the perceptual quality of image segmentation in a discriminative framework such as a structured output support vector machine (SVM). These loss functions do not necessarily have the same structure as the one used by the segmentation inference algorithm, and in general, we may have to resort to generic submodular minimization algorithms for loss augmented inference. Although these come with polynomial time guarantees, they are not practical to apply to image scale data. Many supermodular losses come with strong optimization guarantees, but are not readily incorporated in a loss augmented graph cuts procedure. This motivates our strategy of employing the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) decomposition for loss augmented inference. In doing so, we create a new API for the structured SVM that separates the maximum a posteriori (MAP) inference of the model from the loss augmentation during training. In this way, we gain computational efficiency, making new choices of loss functions practical for the first time, while simultaneously making the inference algorithm employed during training closer to the test time procedure. We show improvement both in accuracy and computational performance on the Microsoft Research Grabcut database and a brain structure segmentation task, empirically validating the use of several supermodular loss functions during training, and the improved computational properties of the proposed ADMM approach over the Fujishige-Wolfe minimum norm point algorithm.
Image segmentation is a popular area of research in computer vision that has many applications in automated image processing. A recent technique called piecewise flat embeddings (PFE) has been proposed for use in image segmentation; PFE transforms image pixel data into a lower dimensional representation where similar pixels are pulled close together and dissimilar pixels are pushed apart. This technique has shown promising results, but its original formulation is not computationally feasible for large images. We propose two improvements to the algorithm for computing PFE: first, we reformulate portions of the algorithm to enable various linear algebra operations to be performed in parallel; second, we propose utilizing an iterative linear solver (preconditioned conjugate gradient) to quickly solve a linear least-squares problem that occurs in the inner loop of a nested iteration. With these two computational improvements, we show on a publicly available image database that PFE can be sped up by an order of magnitude without sacrificing segmentation performance. Our results make this technique more practical for use on large data sets, not only for image segmentation, but for general data clustering problems.
In this work we propose a structured prediction technique that combines the virtues of Gaussian Conditional Random Fields (G-CRF) with Deep Learning: (a) our structured prediction task has a unique global optimum that is obtained exactly from the solution of a linear system (b) the gradients of our model parameters are analytically computed using closed form expressions, in contrast to the memory-demanding contemporary deep structured prediction approaches that rely on back-propagation-through-time, (c) our pairwise terms do not have to be simple hand-crafted expressions, as in the line of works building on the DenseCRF, but can rather be `discovered' from data through deep architectures, and (d) out system can trained in an end-to-end manner. Building on standard tools from numerical analysis we develop very efficient algorithms for inference and learning, as well as a customized technique adapted to the semantic segmentation task. This efficiency allows us to explore more sophisticated architectures for structured prediction in deep learning: we introduce multi-resolution architectures to couple information across scales in a joint optimization framework, yielding systematic improvements. We demonstrate the utility of our approach on the challenging VOC PASCAL 2012 image segmentation benchmark, showing substantial improvements over strong baselines. We make all of our code and experiments available at {https://github.com/siddharthachandra/gcrf}
State-of-the-art image segmentation algorithms generally consist of at least two successive and distinct computations: a boundary detection process that uses local image information to classify image locations as boundaries between objects, followed by a pixel grouping step such as watershed or connected components that clusters pixels into segments. Prior work has varied the complexity and approach employed in these two steps, including the incorporation of multi-layer neural networks to perform boundary prediction, and the use of global optimizations during pixel clustering. We propose a unified and end-to-end trainable machine learning approach, flood-filling networks, in which a recurrent 3d convolutional network directly produces individual segments from a raw image. The proposed approach robustly segments images with an unknown and variable number of objects as well as highly variable object sizes. We demonstrate the approach on a challenging 3d image segmentation task, connectomic reconstruction from volume electron microscopy data, on which flood-filling neural networks substantially improve accuracy over other state-of-the-art methods. The proposed approach can replace complex multi-step segmentation pipelines with a single neural network that is learned end-to-end.
We present a novel and practical deep fully convolutional neural network architecture for semantic pixel-wise segmentation termed SegNet. This core trainable segmentation engine consists of an encoder network, a corresponding decoder network followed by a pixel-wise classification layer. The architecture of the encoder network is topologically identical to the 13 convolutional layers in the VGG16 network. The role of the decoder network is to map the low resolution encoder feature maps to full input resolution feature maps for pixel-wise classification. The novelty of SegNet lies is in the manner in which the decoder upsamples its lower resolution input feature map(s). Specifically, the decoder uses pooling indices computed in the max-pooling step of the corresponding encoder to perform non-linear upsampling. This eliminates the need for learning to upsample. The upsampled maps are sparse and are then convolved with trainable filters to produce dense feature maps. We compare our proposed architecture with the widely adopted FCN and also with the well known DeepLab-LargeFOV, DeconvNet architectures. This comparison reveals the memory versus accuracy trade-off involved in achieving good segmentation performance. SegNet was primarily motivated by scene understanding applications. Hence, it is designed to be efficient both in terms of memory and computational time during inference. It is also significantly smaller in the number of trainable parameters than other competing architectures. We also performed a controlled benchmark of SegNet and other architectures on both road scenes and SUN RGB-D indoor scene segmentation tasks. We show that SegNet provides good performance with competitive inference time
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive imaging technique that can produce images of the eye at the microscopic level. OCT image segmentation to localise retinal layer boundaries is a fundamental procedure for diagnosing and monitoring the progression of retinal and optical nerve disorders. In this paper, we introduce a novel and accurate geodesic distance method (GDM) for OCT segmentation of both healthy and pathological images in either two- or three-dimensional spaces. The method uses a weighted geodesic distance by an exponential function, taking into account both horizontal and vertical intensity variations. The weighted geodesic distance is efficiently calculated from an Eikonal equation via the fast sweeping method. The segmentation is then realised by solving an ordinary differential equation with the geodesic distance. The results of the GDM are compared with manually segmented retinal layer boundaries/surfaces. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed GDM is robust to complex retinal structures with large curvatures and irregularities and it outperforms the parametric active contour algorithm as well as the graph theoretic based approaches for delineating the retinal layers in both healthy and pathological images.
Recently deep residual learning with residual units for training very deep neural networks advanced the state-of-the-art performance on 2D image recognition tasks, e.g., object detection and segmentation. However, how to fully leverage contextual representations for recognition tasks from volumetric data has not been well studied, especially in the field of medical image computing, where a majority of image modalities are in volumetric format. In this paper we explore the deep residual learning on the task of volumetric brain segmentation. There are at least two main contributions in our work. First, we propose a deep voxelwise residual network, referred as VoxResNet, which borrows the spirit of deep residual learning in 2D image recognition tasks, and is extended into a 3D variant for handling volumetric data. Second, an auto-context version of VoxResNet is proposed by seamlessly integrating the low-level image appearance features, implicit shape information and high-level context together for further improving the volumetric segmentation performance. Extensive experiments on the challenging benchmark of brain segmentation from magnetic resonance (MR) images corroborated the efficacy of our proposed method in dealing with volumetric data. We believe this work unravels the potential of 3D deep learning to advance the recognition performance on volumetric image segmentation.
Semantic image segmentation is a principal problem in computer vision, where the aim is to correctly classify each individual pixel of an image into a semantic label. Its widespread use in many areas, including medical imaging and autonomous driving, has fostered extensive research in recent years. Empirical improvements in tackling this task have primarily been motivated by successful exploitation of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) pre-trained for image classification and object recognition. However, the pixel-wise labelling with CNNs has its own unique challenges: (1) an accurate deconvolution, or upsampling, of low-resolution output into a higher-resolution segmentation mask and (2) an inclusion of global information, or context, within locally extracted features. To address these issues, we propose a novel architecture to conduct the equivalent of the deconvolution operation globally and acquire dense predictions. We demonstrate that it leads to improved performance of state-of-the-art semantic segmentation models on the PASCAL VOC 2012 benchmark, reaching 74.0% mean IU accuracy on the test set.
We present in this paper an image segmentation approach that combines a fuzzy semantic region classification and a context based region-growing. Input image is first over-segmented. Then, prior domain knowledge is used to perform a fuzzy classification of these regions to provide a fuzzy semantic labeling. This allows the proposed approach to operate at high level instead of using low-level features and consequently to remedy to the problem of the semantic gap. Each over-segmented region is represented by a vector giving its corresponding membership degrees to the different thematic labels and the whole image is therefore represented by a Regions Partition Matrix. The segmentation is achieved on this matrix instead of the image pixels through two main phases: focusing and propagation. The focusing aims at selecting seeds regions from which information propagation will be performed. Thepropagation phase allows to spread toward others regions and using fuzzy contextual information the needed knowledge ensuring the semantic segmentation. An application of the proposed approach on mammograms shows promising results
We introduce a deep learning image segmentation framework that is extremely robust to missing imaging modalities. Instead of attempting to impute or synthesize missing data, the proposed approach learns, for each modality, an embedding of the input image into a single latent vector space for which arithmetic operations (such as taking the mean) are well defined. Points in that space, which are averaged over modalities available at inference time, can then be further processed to yield the desired segmentation. As such, any combinatorial subset of available modalities can be provided as input, without having to learn a combinatorial number of imputation models. Evaluated on two neurological MRI datasets (brain tumors and MS lesions), the approach yields state-of-the-art segmentation results when provided with all modalities; moreover, its performance degrades remarkably gracefully when modalities are removed, significantly more so than alternative mean-filling or other synthesis approaches.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been recently employed to solve problems from both the computer vision and medical image analysis fields. Despite their popularity, most approaches are only able to process 2D images while most medical data used in clinical practice consists of 3D volumes. In this work we propose an approach to 3D image segmentation based on a volumetric, fully convolutional, neural network. Our CNN is trained end-to-end on MRI volumes depicting prostate, and learns to predict segmentation for the whole volume at once. We introduce a novel objective function, that we optimise during training, based on Dice coefficient. In this way we can deal with situations where there is a strong imbalance between the number of foreground and background voxels. To cope with the limited number of annotated volumes available for training, we augment the data applying random non-linear transformations and histogram matching. We show in our experimental evaluation that our approach achieves good performances on challenging test data while requiring only a fraction of the processing time needed by other previous methods.
Image segmentation is often performed on medical images for identifying diseases in clinical evaluation. Hence it has become one of the major research areas. Conventional image segmentation techniques are unable to provide satisfactory segmentation results for medical images as they contain irregularities. They need to be pre-processed before segmentation. In order to obtain the most suitable method for medical image segmentation, we propose a two stage algorithm. The first stage automatically generates a binary marker image of the region of interest using mathematical morphology. This marker serves as the mask image for the second stage which uses GrabCut on the input image thus resulting in an efficient segmented result. The obtained result can be further refined by user interaction which can be done using the Graphical User Interface (GUI). Experimental results show that the proposed method is accurate and provides satisfactory segmentation results with minimum user interaction on medical as well as natural images.
It is well-known in image processing that computational cost increases rapidly with the number and dimensions of the images to be processed. Several fields, such as medical imaging, routinely use numerous very large images, which might also be 3D and/or captured at several frequency bands, all adding to the computational expense. Multiresolution analysis is a method of increasing the efficiency of the segmentation process. One multiresolution approach is the coarse-to-fine segmentation strategy, whereby the segmentation starts at a coarse resolution and is then fine-tuned during subsequent steps. The starting resolution for segmentation is generally selected arbitrarily with no clear selection criteria. The research reported in this paper showed that starting from different resolutions for image segmentation results in different accuracies and computational times, even for images of the same category (depicting similar scenes or objects). An automated method for resolution selection for an input image would thus be beneficial. This paper introduces a framework for the automated selection of the best resolution for image segmentation. We propose a measure for defining the best resolution based on user/system criteria, offering a trade-off between accuracy and computation time. A learning approach is then introduced for the selection of the resolution, whereby extracted image features are mapped to the previously determined best resolution. In the learning process, class (i.e., resolution) distribution is generally imbalanced, making effective learning from the data difficult. Experiments conducted with three datasets using two different segmentation algorithms show that the resolutions selected through learning enable much faster segmentation than
Image segmentation in the medical domain is a challenging field owing to poor resolution and limited contrast. The predominantly used conventional segmentation techniques and the thresholding methods suffer from limitations because of heavy dependence on user interactions. Uncertainties prevalent in an image cannot be captured by these techniques. The performance further deteriorates when the images are corrupted by noise, outliers and other artifacts. The objective of this paper is to develop an effective robust fuzzy C- means clustering for segmenting vertebral body from magnetic resonance image owing to its unsupervised form of learning. The motivation for this work is detection of spine geometry and proper localisation and labelling will enhance the diagnostic output of a physician. The method is compared with Otsu thresholding and K-means clustering to illustrate the robustness.The reference standard for validation was the annotated images from the radiologist, and the Dice coefficient and Hausdorff distance measures were used to evaluate the segmentation.
Large-scale data is of crucial importance for learning semantic segmentation models, but annotating per-pixel masks is a tedious and inefficient procedure. We note that for the topic of interactive image segmentation, scribbles are very widely used in academic research and commercial software, and are recognized as one of the most user-friendly ways of interacting. In this paper, we propose to use scribbles to annotate images, and develop an algorithm to train convolutional networks for semantic segmentation supervised by scribbles. Our algorithm is based on a graphical model that jointly propagates information from scribbles to unmarked pixels and learns network parameters. We present competitive object semantic segmentation results on the PASCAL VOC dataset by using scribbles as annotations. Scribbles are also favored for annotating stuff (e.g., water, sky, grass) that has no well-defined shape, and our method shows excellent results on the PASCAL-CONTEXT dataset thanks to extra inexpensive scribble annotations. Our scribble annotations on PASCAL VOC are available at http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/jifdai/downloads/scribble_sup
Computer vision has become a major source of information for autonomous navigation of robots of various types, self-driving cars, military robots and mars/lunar rovers are some examples. Nevertheless, the majority of methods focus on analysing images captured in visible spectrum. In this manuscript we elaborate on the problem of segmenting cross-country scenes captured in IR spectrum. For this purpose we proposed employing salient features. Salient features are robust to variations in scale, brightness and view angle. We suggest the Speeded-Up Robust Features as a basis for our salient features for a number of reasons discussed in the paper. We also provide a comparison of two SURF implementations. The SURF features are extracted from images of different terrain types. For every feature we estimate a terrain class membership function. The membership values are obtained by means of either the multi-layer perceptron or nearest neighbours. The features' class membership values and their spatial positions are then applied to estimate class membership values for all pixels in the image. To decrease the effect of segmentation blinking that is caused by rapid switching between different terrain types and to speed up segmentation, we are tracking camera position and predict features' positions. The comparison of the multi-layer perception and the nearest neighbour classifiers is presented in the paper. The error rate of the terrain segmentation using the nearest neighbours obtained on the testing set is 16.6+-9.17%.
One of the most challenging tasks in microarray image analysis is spot segmentation. A solution to this problem is to provide an algorithm than can be used to find any spot within the microarray image. Circular Hough Transformation (CHT) is a powerful feature extraction technique used in image analysis, computer vision, and digital image processing. CHT algorithm is applied on the cDNA microarray images to develop the accuracy and the efficiency of the spots localization, addressing and segmentation process. The purpose of the applied technique is to find imperfect instances of spots within a certain class of circles by applying a voting procedure on the cDNA microarray images for spots localization, addressing and characterizing the pixels of each spot into foreground pixels and background simultaneously. Intensive experiments on the University of North Carolina (UNC) microarray database indicate that the proposed method is superior to the K-means method and the Support vector machine (SVM). Keywords: Hough circle transformation, cDNA microarray image analysis, cDNA microarray image segmentation, spots localization and addressing, spots segmentation
A multi-scale greedy-based object proposal generation approach is presented. Based on the multi-scale nature of objects in images, our approach is built on top of a hierarchical segmentation. We first identify the representative and diverse exemplar clusters within each scale by using a diversity ranking algorithm. Object proposals are obtained by selecting a subset from the multi-scale segment pool via maximizing a submodular objective function, which consists of a weighted coverage term, a single-scale diversity term and a multi-scale reward term. The weighted coverage term forces the selected set of object proposals to be representative and compact; the single-scale diversity term encourages choosing segments from different exemplar clusters so that they will cover as many object patterns as possible; the multi-scale reward term encourages the selected proposals to be discriminative and selected from multiple layers generated by the hierarchical image segmentation. The experimental results on the Berkeley Segmentation Dataset and PASCAL VOC2012 segmentation dataset demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of our object proposal model. Additionally, we validate our object proposals in simultaneous segmentation and detection and outperform the state-of-art performance.
Bilateral filters have wide spread use due to their edge-preserving properties. The common use case is to manually choose a parametric filter type, usually a Gaussian filter. In this paper, we will generalize the parametrization and in particular derive a gradient descent algorithm so the filter parameters can be learned from data. This derivation allows to learn high dimensional linear filters that operate in sparsely populated feature spaces. We build on the permutohedral lattice construction for efficient filtering. The ability to learn more general forms of high-dimensional filters can be used in several diverse applications. First, we demonstrate the use in applications where single filter applications are desired for runtime reasons. Further, we show how this algorithm can be used to learn the pairwise potentials in densely connected conditional random fields and apply these to different image segmentation tasks. Finally, we introduce layers of bilateral filters in CNNs and propose bilateral neural networks for the use of high-dimensional sparse data. This view provides new ways to encode model structure into network architectures. A diverse set of experiments empirically validates the usage of general forms of filters.
Quorum sensing is a decentralized biological process, through which a community of cells with no global awareness coordinate their functional behaviors based solely on cell-medium interactions and local decisions. This paper draws inspirations from quorum sensing and colony competition to derive a new algorithm for data clustering. The algorithm treats each data as a single cell, and uses knowledge of local connectivity to cluster cells into multiple colonies simultaneously. It simulates auto-inducers secretion in quorum sensing to tune the influence radius for each cell. At the same time, sparsely distributed core cells spread their influences to form colonies, and interactions between colonies eventually determine each cell's identity. The algorithm has the flexibility to analyze not only static but also time-varying data, which surpasses the capacity of many existing algorithms. Its stability and convergence properties are established. The algorithm is tested on several applications, including both synthetic and real benchmarks data sets, alleles clustering, community detection, image segmentation. In particular, the algorithm's distinctive capability to deal with time-varying data allows us to experiment it on novel applications such as robotic swarms grouping and switching model identification. We believe that the algorithm's promising performance would stimulate many more exciting applications.
Random fields have remained a topic of great interest over past decades for the purpose of structured inference, especially for problems such as image segmentation. The local nodal interactions commonly used in such models often suffer the short-boundary bias problem, which are tackled primarily through the incorporation of long-range nodal interactions. However, the issue of computational tractability becomes a significant issue when incorporating such long-range nodal interactions, particularly when a large number of long-range nodal interactions (e.g., fully-connected random fields) are modeled. In this work, we introduce a generalized random field framework based around the concept of stochastic cliques, which addresses the issue of computational tractability when using fully-connected random fields by stochastically forming a sparse representation of the random field. The proposed framework allows for efficient structured inference using fully-connected random fields without any restrictions on the potential functions that can be utilized. Several realizations of the proposed framework using graph cuts are presented and evaluated, and experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework can provide competitive performance for the purpose of image segmentation when compared to existing fully-connected and principled deep random field frameworks.
There has been significant interest in the use of fully-connected graphical models and deep-structured graphical models for the purpose of structured inference. However, fully-connected and deep-structured graphical models have been largely explored independently, leaving the unification of these two concepts ripe for exploration. A fundamental challenge with unifying these two types of models is in dealing with computational complexity. In this study, we investigate the feasibility of unifying fully-connected and deep-structured models in a computationally tractable manner for the purpose of structured inference. To accomplish this, we introduce a deep-structured fully-connected random field (DFRF) model that integrates a series of intermediate sparse auto-encoding layers placed between state layers to significantly reduce computational complexity. The problem of image segmentation was used to illustrate the feasibility of using the DFRF for structured inference in a computationally tractable manner. Results in this study show that it is feasible to unify fully-connected and deep-structured models in a computationally tractable manner for solving structured inference problems such as image segmentation.
In this paper, we propose several novel deep learning methods for object saliency detection based on the powerful convolutional neural networks. In our approach, we use a gradient descent method to iteratively modify an input image based on the pixel-wise gradients to reduce a cost function measuring the class-specific objectness of the image. The pixel-wise gradients can be efficiently computed using the back-propagation algorithm. The discrepancy between the modified image and the original one may be used as a saliency map for the image. Moreover, we have further proposed several new training methods to learn saliency-specific convolutional nets for object saliency detection, in order to leverage the available pixel-wise segmentation information. Our methods are extremely computationally efficient (processing 20-40 images per second in one GPU). In this work, we use the computed saliency maps for image segmentation. Experimental results on two benchmark tasks, namely Microsoft COCO and Pascal VOC 2012, have shown that our proposed methods can generate high-quality salience maps, clearly outperforming many existing methods. In particular, our approaches excel in handling many difficult images, which contain complex background, highly-variable salient objects, multiple objects, and/or very small salient objects.
Contour detection has been a fundamental component in many image segmentation and object detection systems. Most previous work utilizes low-level features such as texture or saliency to detect contours and then use them as cues for a higher-level task such as object detection. However, we claim that recognizing objects and predicting contours are two mutually related tasks. Contrary to traditional approaches, we show that we can invert the commonly established pipeline: instead of detecting contours with low-level cues for a higher-level recognition task, we exploit object-related features as high-level cues for contour detection. We achieve this goal by means of a multi-scale deep network that consists of five convolutional layers and a bifurcated fully-connected sub-network. The section from the input layer to the fifth convolutional layer is fixed and directly lifted from a pre-trained network optimized over a large-scale object classification task. This section of the network is applied to four different scales of the image input. These four parallel and identical streams are then attached to a bifurcated sub-network consisting of two independently-trained branches. One branch learns to predict the contour likelihood (with a classification objective) whereas the other branch is trained to learn the fraction of human labelers agreeing about the contour presence at a given point (with a regression criterion). We show that without any feature engineering our multi-scale deep learning approach achieves state-of-the-art results in contour detection.
We consider the problem of approximate Bayesian inference in log-supermodular models. These models encompass regular pairwise MRFs with binary variables, but allow to capture high-order interactions, which are intractable for existing approximate inference techniques such as belief propagation, mean field, and variants. We show that a recently proposed variational approach to inference in log-supermodular models -L-FIELD- reduces to the widely-studied minimum norm problem for submodular minimization. This insight allows to leverage powerful existing tools, and hence to solve the variational problem orders of magnitude more efficiently than previously possible. We then provide another natural interpretation of L-FIELD, demonstrating that it exactly minimizes a specific type of R\'enyi divergence measure. This insight sheds light on the nature of the variational approximations produced by L-FIELD. Furthermore, we show how to perform parallel inference as message passing in a suitable factor graph at a linear convergence rate, without having to sum up over all the configurations of the factor. Finally, we apply our approach to a challenging image segmentation task. Our experiments confirm scalability of our approach, high quality of the marginals, and the benefit of incorporating higher-order potentials.
This paper aims at developing an integrated system of clothing co-parsing, in order to jointly parse a set of clothing images (unsegmented but annotated with tags) into semantic configurations. We propose a data-driven framework consisting of two phases of inference. The first phase, referred as "image co-segmentation", iterates to extract consistent regions on images and jointly refines the regions over all images by employing the exemplar-SVM (E-SVM) technique [23]. In the second phase (i.e. "region co-labeling"), we construct a multi-image graphical model by taking the segmented regions as vertices, and incorporate several contexts of clothing configuration (e.g., item location and mutual interactions). The joint label assignment can be solved using the efficient Graph Cuts algorithm. In addition to evaluate our framework on the Fashionista dataset [30], we construct a dataset called CCP consisting of 2098 high-resolution street fashion photos to demonstrate the performance of our system. We achieve 90.29% / 88.23% segmentation accuracy and 65.52% / 63.89% recognition rate on the Fashionista and the CCP datasets, respectively, which are superior compared with state-of-the-art methods.
The segmentation of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images is a longstanding yet challenging task, not only because of the presence of speckle, but also due to the variations of surface backscattering properties in the images. Tremendous investigations have been made to eliminate the speckle effects for the segmentation of SAR images, while few work devotes to dealing with the variations of backscattering coefficients in the images. In order to overcome both the two difficulties, this paper presents a novel SAR image segmentation method by exploiting a multi-scale active contour model based on the non-local processing principle. More precisely, we first formulize the SAR segmentation problem with an active contour model by integrating the non-local interactions between pairs of patches inside and outside the segmented regions. Secondly, a multi-scale strategy is proposed to speed up the non-local active contour segmentation procedure and to avoid falling into local minimum for achieving more accurate segmentation results. Experimental results on simulated and real SAR images demonstrate the efficiency and feasibility of the proposed method: it can not only achieve precise segmentations for images with heavy speckles and non-local intensity variations, but also can be used for SAR images from different types of sensors.
When evaluating computer vision systems, we are often concerned with performance on a task-specific evaluation measure such as the Intersection-Over-Union score used in the PASCAL VOC image segmentation challenge. Ideally, our systems would be tuned specifically to these evaluation measures. However, despite much work on loss-aware structured prediction, top performing systems do not use these techniques. In this work, we seek to address this problem, incorporating loss-aware prediction in a manner that is amenable to the approaches taken by top performing systems. Our main idea is to simultaneously leverage two systems: a highly tuned pipeline system as is found on top of leaderboards, and a traditional CRF. We show how to combine high quality candidate solutions from the pipeline with the probabilistic approach of the CRF that is amenable to loss-aware prediction. The result is that we can use loss-aware prediction methodology to improve performance of the highly tuned pipeline system.
Structural support vector machines (SSVMs) are amongst the best performing models for structured computer vision tasks, such as semantic image segmentation or human pose estimation. Training SSVMs, however, is computationally costly, because it requires repeated calls to a structured prediction subroutine (called \emph{max-oracle}), which has to solve an optimization problem itself, e.g. a graph cut. In this work, we introduce a new algorithm for SSVM training that is more efficient than earlier techniques when the max-oracle is computationally expensive, as it is frequently the case in computer vision tasks. The main idea is to (i) combine the recent stochastic Block-Coordinate Frank-Wolfe algorithm with efficient hyperplane caching, and (ii) use an automatic selection rule for deciding whether to call the exact max-oracle or to rely on an approximate one based on the cached hyperplanes. We show experimentally that this strategy leads to faster convergence to the optimum with respect to the number of requires oracle calls, and that this translates into faster convergence with respect to the total runtime when the max-oracle is slow compared to the other steps of the algorithm. A publicly available C++ implementation is provided at http://pub.ist.ac.at/~vnk/papers/SVM.html .
Automatic face recognition has received significant performance improvement by developing specialised facial image representations. On the other hand, generic object recognition has rarely been applied to the face recognition. Spatial pyramid pooling of features encoded by an over-complete dictionary has been the key component of many state-of-the-art image classification systems. Inspired by its success, in this work we develop a new face image representation method inspired by the second-order pooling in Carreira et al. [1], which was originally proposed for image segmentation. The proposed method differs from the previous methods in that, we encode the densely extracted local patches by a small-size dictionary; and the facial image signatures are obtained by pooling the second-order statistics of the encoded features. We show the importance of pooling on encoded features, which is bypassed by the original second-order pooling method to avoid the high computational cost. Equipped with a simple linear classifier, the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art face identification performance by large margins. For example, on the LFW databases, the proposed method performs better than the previous best by around 13% accuracy.
Accurate and fast extraction of lung volumes from computed tomography (CT) scans remains in a great demand in the clinical environment because the available methods fail to provide a generic solution due to wide anatomical variations of lungs and existence of pathologies. Manual annotation, current gold standard, is time consuming and often subject to human bias. On the other hand, current state-of-the-art fully automated lung segmentation methods fail to make their way into the clinical practice due to their inability to efficiently incorporate human input for handling misclassifications and praxis. This paper presents a lung annotation tool for CT images that is interactive, efficient, and robust. The proposed annotation tool produces an "as accurate as possible" initial annotation based on the fuzzy-connectedness image segmentation, followed by efficient manual fixation of the initial extraction if deemed necessary by the practitioner. To provide maximum flexibility to the users, our annotation tool is supported in three major operating systems (Windows, Linux, and the Mac OS X). The quantitative results comparing our free software with commercially available lung segmentation tools show higher degree of consistency and precision of our software with a considerable potential to enhance the performance of routine clinical tasks.
Structured-output learning is a challenging problem; particularly so because of the difficulty in obtaining large datasets of fully labelled instances for training. In this paper we try to overcome this difficulty by presenting a multi-utility learning framework for structured prediction that can learn from training instances with different forms of supervision. We propose a unified technique for inferring the loss functions most suitable for quantifying the consistency of solutions with the given weak annotation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on the challenging semantic image segmentation problem for which a wide variety of annotations can be used. For instance, the popular training datasets for semantic segmentation are composed of images with hard-to-generate full pixel labellings, as well as images with easy-to-obtain weak annotations, such as bounding boxes around objects, or image-level labels that specify which object categories are present in an image. Experimental evaluation shows that the use of annotation-specific loss functions dramatically improves segmentation accuracy compared to the baseline system where only one type of weak annotation is used.
Texture segmentation is the process of partitioning an image into regions with different textures containing a similar group of pixels. Detecting the discontinuity of the filter's output and their statistical properties help in segmenting and classifying a given image with different texture regions. In this proposed paper, chili x-ray image texture segmentation is performed by using Gabor filter. The texture segmented result obtained from Gabor filter fed into three texture filters, namely Entropy, Standard Deviation and Range filter. After performing texture analysis, features can be extracted by using Statistical methods. In this paper Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrices and First order statistics are used as feature extraction methods. Features extracted from statistical methods are given to Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. Using this methodology, it is found that texture segmentation is followed by the Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix feature extraction method gives a higher accuracy rate of 84% when compared with First order feature extraction method. Key Words: Texture segmentation, Texture filter, Gabor filter, Feature extraction methods, SVM classifier.
Image segmentation some of the challenging issues on brain magnetic resonance image tumor segmentation caused by the weak correlation between magnetic resonance imaging intensity and anatomical meaning.With the objective of utilizing more meaningful information to improve brain tumor segmentation,an approach which employs bilateral symmetry information as an additional feature for segmentation is proposed.This is motivated by potential performance improvement in the general automatic brain tumor segmentation systems which are important for many medical and scientific applications.Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging segmentation is a complex problem in the field of medical imaging despite various presented methods.MR image of human brain can be divided into several sub-regions especially soft tissues such as gray matter,white matter and cerebra spinal fluid.Although edge information is the main clue in image segmentation,it cannot get a better result in analysis the content of images without combining other information.Our goal is to detect the position and boundary of tumors automatically.Experiments were conducted on real pictures,and the results show that the algorithm is flexible and convenient.
We develop a generalized active contour formalism for image segmentation based on shape templates. The shape template is subjected to a restricted affine transformation (RAT) in order to segment the object of interest. RAT allows for translation, rotation, and scaling, which give a total of five degrees of freedom. The proposed active contour comprises an inner and outer contour pair, which are closed and concentric. The active contour energy is a contrast function defined based on the intensities of pixels that lie inside the inner contour and those that lie in the annulus between the inner and outer contours. We show that the contrast energy functional is optimal under certain conditions. The optimal RAT parameters are computed by maximizing the contrast function using a gradient descent optimizer. We show that the calculations are made efficient through use of Green's theorem. The proposed formalism is capable of handling a variety of shapes because for a chosen template, optimization is carried with respect to the RAT parameters only. The proposed formalism is validated on multiple images to show robustness to Gaussian and Poisson noise, to initialization, and to partial loss of structure in the object to be segmented.
In this paper, we propose novel algorithms for inferring the Maximum a Posteriori (MAP) solution of discrete pairwise random field models under multiple constraints. We show how this constrained discrete optimization problem can be formulated as a multi-dimensional parametric mincut problem via its Lagrangian dual, and prove that our algorithm isolates all constraint instances for which the problem can be solved exactly. These multiple solutions enable us to even deal with `soft constraints' (higher order penalty functions). Moreover, we propose two practical variants of our algorithm to solve problems with hard constraints. We also show how our method can be applied to solve various constrained discrete optimization problems such as submodular minimization and shortest path computation. Experimental evaluation using the foreground-background image segmentation problem with statistic constraints reveals that our method is faster and its results are closer to the ground truth labellings compared with the popular continuous relaxation based methods.
We present a novel segmentation algorithm based on a hierarchical representation of images. The main contribution of this work is to explore the capabilities of the A Contrario reasoning when applied to the segmentation problem, and to overcome the limitations of current algorithms within that framework. This exploratory approach has three main goals. Our first goal is to extend the search space of greedy merging algorithms to the set of all partitions spanned by a certain hierarchy, and to cast the segmentation as a selection problem within this space. In this way we increase the number of tested partitions and thus we potentially improve the segmentation results. In addition, this space is considerably smaller than the space of all possible partitions, thus we still keep the complexity controlled. Our second goal aims to improve the locality of region merging algorithms, which usually merge pairs of neighboring regions. In this work, we overcome this limitation by introducing a validation procedure for complete partitions, rather than for pairs of regions. The third goal is to perform an exhaustive experimental evaluation methodology in order to provide reproducible results. Finally, we embed the selection process on a statistical A Contrario framework which allows us to have only one free parameter related to the desired scale.
"Background subtraction" is an old technique for finding moving objects in a video sequence for example, cars driving on a freeway. The idea is that subtracting the current image from a timeaveraged background image will leave only nonstationary objects. It is, however, a crude approximation to the task of classifying each pixel of the current image; it fails with slow-moving objects and does not distinguish shadows from moving objects. The basic idea of this paper is that we can classify each pixel using a model of how that pixel looks when it is part of different classes. We learn a mixture-of-Gaussians classification model for each pixel using an unsupervised technique- an efficient, incremental version of EM. Unlike the standard image-averaging approach, this automatically updates the mixture component for each class according to likelihood of membership; hence slow-moving objects are handled perfectly. Our approach also identifies and eliminates shadows much more effectively than other techniques such as thresholding. Application of this method as part of the Roadwatch traffic surveillance project is expected to result in significant improvements in vehicle identification and tracking.
In the recent advancement of multimedia technologies, it becomes a major concern of detecting visual attention regions in the field of image processing. The popularity of the terminal devices in a heterogeneous environment of the multimedia technology gives us enough scope for the betterment of image visualization. Although there exist numerous methods, feature based image extraction becomes a popular one in the field of image processing. The objective of image segmentation is the domain-independent partition of the image into a set of regions, which are visually distinct and uniform with respect to some property, such as grey level, texture or colour. Segmentation and subsequent extraction can be considered the first step and key issue in object recognition, scene understanding and image analysis. Its application area encompasses mobile devices, industrial quality control, medical appliances, robot navigation, geophysical exploration, military applications, etc. In all these areas, the quality of the final results depends largely on the quality of the preprocessing work. Most of the times, acquiring spurious-free preprocessing data requires a lot of application cum mathematical intensive background works. We propose a feature based fuzzy rule guided novel technique that is functionally devoid of any external intervention during execution. Experimental results suggest that this approach is an efficient one in comparison to different other techniques extensively addressed in literature. In order to justify the supremacy of performance of our proposed technique in respect of its competitors, we take recourse to effective metrics like Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and
Maximum flow (and minimum cut) algorithms have had a strong impact on computer vision. In particular, graph cuts algorithms provide a mechanism for the discrete optimization of an energy functional which has been used in a variety of applications such as image segmentation, stereo, image stitching and texture synthesis. Algorithms based on the classical formulation of max-flow defined on a graph are known to exhibit metrication artefacts in the solution. Therefore, a recent trend has been to instead employ a spatially continuous maximum flow (or the dual min-cut problem) in these same applications to produce solutions with no metrication errors. However, known fast continuous max-flow algorithms have no stopping criteria or have not been proved to converge. In this work, we revisit the continuous max-flow problem and show that the analogous discrete formulation is different from the classical max-flow problem. We then apply an appropriate combinatorial optimization technique to this combinatorial continuous max-flow CCMF problem to find a null-divergence solution that exhibits no metrication artefacts and may be solved exactly by a fast, efficient algorithm with provable convergence. Finally, by exhibiting the dual problem of our CCMF formulation, we clarify the fact, already proved by Nozawa in the continuous setting, that the max-flow and the total variation problems are not always equivalent.
This paper addresses the automatic image segmentation problem in a region merging style. With an initially over-segmented image, in which the many regions (or super-pixels) with homogeneous color are detected, image segmentation is performed by iteratively merging the regions according to a statistical test. There are two essential issues in a region merging algorithm: order of merging and the stopping criterion. In the proposed algorithm, these two issues are solved by a novel predicate, which is defined by the sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) and the maximum likelihood criterion. Starting from an over-segmented image, neighboring regions are progressively merged if there is an evidence for merging according to this predicate. We show that the merging order follows the principle of dynamic programming. This formulates image segmentation as an inference problem, where the final segmentation is established based on the observed image. We also prove that the produced segmentation satisfies certain global properties. In addition, a faster algorithm is developed to accelerate the region merging process, which maintains a nearest neighbor graph in each iteration. Experiments on real natural images are conducted to demonstrate the performance of the proposed dynamic region merging algorithm.
The problem of image segmentation is known to become particularly challenging in the case of partial occlusion of the object(s) of interest, background clutter, and the presence of strong noise. To overcome this problem, the present paper introduces a novel approach segmentation through the use of "weak" shape priors. Specifically, in the proposed method, an segmenting active contour is constrained to converge to a configuration at which its geometric parameters attain their empirical probability densities closely matching the corresponding model densities that are learned based on training samples. It is shown through numerical experiments that the proposed shape modeling can be regarded as "weak" in the sense that it minimally influences the segmentation, which is allowed to be dominated by data-related forces. On the other hand, the priors provide sufficient constraints to regularize the convergence of segmentation, while requiring substantially smaller training sets to yield less biased results as compared to the case of PCA-based regularization methods. The main advantages of the proposed technique over some existing alternatives is demonstrated in a series of experiments.
We presents in this paper a novel fish classification methodology based on a combination between robust feature selection, image segmentation and geometrical parameter techniques using Artificial Neural Network and Decision Tree. Unlike existing works for fish classification, which propose descriptors and do not analyze their individual impacts in the whole classification task and do not make the combination between the feature selection, image segmentation and geometrical parameter, we propose a general set of features extraction using robust feature selection, image segmentation and geometrical parameter and their correspondent weights that should be used as a priori information by the classifier. In this sense, instead of studying techniques for improving the classifiers structure itself, we consider it as a black box and focus our research in the determination of which input information must bring a robust fish discrimination.The main contribution of this paper is enhancement recognize and classify fishes based on digital image and To develop and implement a novel fish recognition prototype using global feature extraction, image segmentation and geometrical parameters, it have the ability to Categorize the given fish into its cluster and Categorize the clustered fish into poison or non-poison fish, and categorizes the non-poison fish into its family .
This paper proposes a novel algorithm for the problem of structural image segmentation through an interactive model-based approach. Interaction is expressed in the model creation, which is done according to user traces drawn over a given input image. Both model and input are then represented by means of attributed relational graphs derived on the fly. Appearance features are taken into account as object attributes and structural properties are expressed as relational attributes. To cope with possible topological differences between both graphs, a new structure called the deformation graph is introduced. The segmentation process corresponds to finding a labelling of the input graph that minimizes the deformations introduced in the model when it is updated with input information. This approach has shown to be faster than other segmentation methods, with competitive output quality. Therefore, the method solves the problem of multiple label segmentation in an efficient way. Encouraging results on both natural and target-specific color images, as well as examples showing the reusability of the model, are presented and discussed.
We present the studies of Sn/1-x/Cr/x/Te semimagnetic semiconductors with chemical composition x ranging from 0.004 to 0.012. The structural characterization indicates that even at low average Cr-content x < ?0.012, the aggregation into micrometer size clusters appears in our samples. The magnetic properties are affected by the presence of clusters. In all our samples we observe the transition into the ordered state at temperatures between 130 and 140 K. The analysis of both static and dynamic magnetic susceptibility data indicates that the spin-glass-like state is observed in our samples. The addition of Cr to the alloy seems to shift the spin-glass-like transition from 130 K for x = 0.004 to 140 K for x = 0.012.
The idea of stable, localized bundles of energy has strong appeal as a model for particles. In the 1950s John Wheeler envisioned such bundles as smooth configurations of electromagnetic energy that he called {\em geons}, but none were found. Instead, particle-like solutions were found in the late 1960s with the addition of a scalar field, and these were given the name {\em boson stars}. Since then, boson stars find use in a wide variety of models as sources of dark matter, as black hole mimickers, in simple models of binary systems, and as a tool in finding black holes in higher dimensions with only a single killing vector. We discuss important varieties of boson stars, their dynamic properties, and some of their uses, concentrating on recent efforts.
When a droplet spreads on a solid substrate, it is unclear what are the correct boundary conditions to impose at the moving contact line. The classical no-slip condition is generally acknowledged to lead to a non-integrable singularity at the moving contact line, for which a slip condition, associated with a small slip parameter, $\lambda$, serves to alleviate. In this paper, we discuss what occurs as the slip parameter, $\lambda$, tends to zero. In particular, we explain how the zero-slip limit should be discussed in consideration of two distinguished:: one where time is held constant $t = O(1)$, and one where time tends to infinity at the rate $t = O(|\log \lambda|)$. The crucial result is that in the case where time is held constant, the $\lambda \to 0$ limit converges to the slip-free equation, and contact line slippage occurs as a regular perturbative effect. However, if $\lambda \to 0$ and $t \to \infty$, then contact line slippage is a leading-order singular effect.
In recent years researchers have gravitated to social media platforms, especially Twitter, as fertile ground for empirical analysis of social phenomena. Social media provides researchers access to trace data of interactions and discourse that once went unrecorded in the offline world. Researchers have sought to use these data to explain social phenomena both particular to social media and applicable to the broader social world. This paper offers a minireview of Twitter-based research on political crowd behavior. This literature offers insight into particular social phenomena on Twitter, but often fails to use standardized methods that permit interpretation beyond individual studies. Moreover, the literature fails to ground methodologies and results in social or political theory, divorcing empirical research from the theory needed to interpret it. Rather, papers focus primarily on methodological innovations for social media analyses, but these too often fail to sufficiently demonstrate the validity of such methodologies. This minireview considers a small number of selected papers; we analyze their (often lack of) theoretical approaches, review their methodological innovations, and offer suggestions as to the relevance of their results for political scientists and sociologists.
In 1914, Kempner proved that the series 1/1 + 1/2 + ... + 1/8 + 1/10 + 1/11 + ... + 1/18 + 1/20 + 1/21 + ... where the denominators are the positive integers that do not contain the digit 9, converges to a sum less than 90. The actual sum is about 22.92068. In 1916, Irwin proved, among other things, that the sum of 1/n where n has at most a finite number of 9's is also a convergent series. We show how to compute sums of Irwins' series to high precision. For example, the sum of the series 1/9 + 1/19 + 1/29 + 1/39 + 1/49 + ... where the denominators have exactly one 9, is about 23.04428 70807 47848 31968. Another example: the sum of 1/n where n has exactly 100 zeros is about 10 ln(10) + 1.00745 x 10^-197 ~ 23.02585; note that the first, and largest, term in this series is the tiny 1/googol. Finally, we discuss a class of related series whose summation algorithm has not yet been developed.
In this paper we present a general solution for multi-target tracking with superpositional measurements. Measurements that are functions of the sum of the contributions of the targets present in the surveillance area are called superpositional measurements. We base our modelling on Labeled Random Finite Set (RFS) in order to jointly estimate the number of targets and their trajectories. This modelling leads to a labeled version of Mahler's multi-target Bayes filter. However, a straightforward implementation of this tracker using Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods is not feasible due to the difficulties of sampling in high dimensional spaces. We propose an efficient multi-target sampling strategy based on Superpositional Approximate CPHD (SA-CPHD) filter and the recently introduced Labeled Multi-Bernoulli (LMB) and Vo-Vo densities. The applicability of the proposed approach is verified through simulation in a challenging radar application with closely spaced targets and low signal-to-noise ratio.
A datatype defining rewrite system (DDRS) is an algebraic (equational) specification intended to specify a datatype. When interpreting the equations from left-to-right, a DDRS defines a term rewriting system that must be ground-complete. First we define two DDRSs for the ring of integers, each comprising twelve rewrite rules, and prove their ground-completeness. Then we introduce natural number and integer arithmetic specified according to unary view, that is, arithmetic based on a postfix unary append constructor (a form of tallying). Next we specify arithmetic based on two other views: binary and decimal notation. The binary and decimal view have as their characteristic that each normal form resembles common number notation, that is, either a digit, or a string of digits without leading zero, or the negated versions of the latter. Integer arithmetic in binary and decimal notation is based on (postfix) digit append functions. For each view we define a DDRS, and in each case the resulting datatype is a canonical term algebra that extends a corresponding canonical term algebra for natural numbers. Then, for each view, we consider an alternative DDRS based on tree constructors that yields comparable normal forms, which for that view admits expressions that are algorithmically more involved. For all DDRSs considered, ground-completeness is proven.
We put forward a new view of relativity theory that makes the existence of a flow of time compatible with the four-dimensional block universe. To this end, we apply the creation-discovery view elaborated for quantum mechanics to relativity theory and in such a way that time and space become creations instead of discoveries and an underlying non-temporal and non-spatial reality comes into existence. We study the nature of this underlying non-temporal and non-spatial reality and reinterpret many aspects of the theory within this new view. We show that data of relativistic measurements are sufficient to derive the three-dimensionality of physical space. The nature of light and massive entities is reconsidered, and an analogy with human cognition is worked out.
In this paper we give easy-to-implement closed-form expressions for European and Asian Greeks for general L2-payoff functions and underlying assets in an exponential L\'evy process model with nonvanishing Brownian motion part. The results are based on Hilbert space valued Malliavin Calculus and extend previous results from the literature. Numerical experiments suggest, that in the case of a continuous payoff function, a combination of Malliavin Monte Carlo Greeks and the finite difference method has a better convergence behavior, whereas in the case of discontinuous payoff functions, the Malliavin Monte Carlo method clearly is the superior method compared to the finite difference approach, for first- and second order Greeks. Reduction arguments from the literature based on measure change imply that the expressions for the Greeks in this paper also hold true for generalized Asian options in particular for fixed and floating strike Asian options.
Nolan and Temple Lang argue that "the ability to express statistical computations is an essential skill." A key related capacity is the ability to conduct and present data analysis in a way that another person can understand and replicate. The copy-and-paste workflow that is an artifact of antiquated user-interface design makes reproducibility of statistical analysis more difficult, especially as data become increasingly complex and statistical methods become increasingly sophisticated. R Markdown is a new technology that makes creating fully-reproducible statistical analysis simple and painless. It provides a solution suitable not only for cutting edge research, but also for use in an introductory statistics course. We present evidence that R Markdown can be used effectively in introductory statistics courses, and discuss its role in the rapidly-changing world of statistical computation.
We generalize Ebert's Hat Problem for three persons and three colors. All players guess simultaneously the color of their own hat observing only the hat colors of the other players. It is also allowed for each player to pass: no color is guessed. The team wins if at least one player guesses his or her hat color correct and none of the players has an incorrect guess. This paper studies Ebert's hat problem, where the probabilities of the colors may be different (asymmetric case). Our goal is to maximize the probability of winning the game and to describe winning strategies. In this paper we use the notion of an adequate set. The construction of adequate sets is independent of underlying probabilities and we can use this fact in the analysis of the asymmetric case. Another point of interest is the fact that computational complexity using adequate sets is much less than using standard methods.
The Voronoi diagram is a certain geometric data structure which has numerous applications in various scientific and technological fields. The theory of algorithms for computing 2D Euclidean Voronoi diagrams of point sites is rich and useful, with several different and important algorithms. However, this theory has been quite steady during the last few decades in the sense that no essentially new algorithms have entered the game. In addition, most of the known algorithms are serial in nature and hence cast inherent difficulties on the possibility to compute the diagram in parallel. In this paper we present the projector algorithm: a new and simple algorithm which enables the (combinatorial) computation of 2D Voronoi diagrams. The algorithm is significantly different from previous ones and some of the involved concepts in it are in the spirit of linear programming and optics. Parallel implementation is naturally supported since each Voronoi cell can be computed independently of the other cells. A new combinatorial structure for representing the cells (and any convex polytope) is described along the way and the computation of the induced Delaunay graph is obtained almost automatically.
An approach to the formal description of service contracts is presented in terms of automata. We focus on the basic property of guaranteeing that in the multi-party composition of principals each of them gets his requests satisfied, so that the overall composition reaches its goal. Depending on whether requests are satisfied synchronously or asynchronously, we construct an orchestrator that at static time either yields composed services enjoying the required properties or detects the principals responsible for possible violations. To do that in the asynchronous case we resort to Linear Programming techniques. We also relate our automata with two logically based methods for specifying contracts.
It has been known for over 70 years that there is an asymptotic transition of Charlier polynomials to Hermite polynomials. This transition, which is still presented in its classical form in modern reference works, is valid if and only if a certain parameter is integer. In this light, it is surprising that a much more powerful transition exists from Charlier polynomials to the Hermite function, valid for any real value of the parameter. This greatly strengthens the asymptotic connections between Charlier polynomials and special functions, with applications for instance in queueing theory. It is shown in this paper that the convergence is uniform in bounded intervals, and a sharp rate bound is proved. It is also shown that there is a transition of derivatives of Charlier polynomials to the derivative of the Hermite function, again with a sharp rate bound. Finally, it is proved that zeros of Charlier polynomials converge to zeros of the Hermite function. While rigorous, the proofs use only elementary techniques.
This paper presents a detailed modeling and analysis regarding the dispersion characteristics of multilayered open coaxial waveguides. The study is motivated by the need of improved modeling and an increased physical understanding about the wave propagation phenomena on very long power cables which has a potential industrial application with fault localization and monitoring. The electromagnetic model is based on a layer recursive computation of axial-symmetric fields in connection with a magnetic frill generator excitation that can be calibrated to the current measured at the input of the cable. The layer recursive formulation enables a stable and efficient numerical computation of the related dispersion functions as well as a detailed analysis regarding the analytic and asymptotic properties of the associated determinants. Modal contributions as well as the contribution from the associated branch-cut (non-discrete radiating modes) are defined and analyzed. Measurements and modeling of pulse propagation on an 82 km long HVDC power cable are presented as a concrete example. In this example, it is concluded that the contribution from the second TM mode as well as from the branch-cut is negligible for all practical purposes. However, it is also shown that for extremely long power cables the contribution from the branch-cut can in fact dominate over the quasi-TEM mode for some frequency intervals. The main contribution of this paper is to provide the necessary analysis tools for a quantitative study of these phenomena.
Helioseismology, the study of global solar oscillations, has proved to be an extremely powerful tool for the investigation of the internal structure and dynamics of the Sun. Studies of time changes in frequency observations of solar oscillations from helioseismology experiments on Earth and in space have shown, for example, that the Sun's shape varies over solar cycle timescales. In particular, far-reaching inferences about the Sun have been obtained by applying inversion techniques to observations of frequencies of oscillations. The results, so far, have shown that the solar structure is remarkably close to the predictions of the standard solar model and, recently, that the near-surface region can be probed with sufficiently high spatial resolution as to allow investigations of the equation of state and of the solar envelope helium abundance. The same helioseismic inversion methods can be applied to the rotational frequency splittings to deduce with high accuracy the internal rotation velocity of the Sun, as function of radius and latitude. This also allows us to study some global astrophysical properties of the Sun, such as the angular momentum, the grativational quadrupole moment and the effect of distortion induced on the surface (oblateness). The helioseismic approach and what we have learnt from it during the last decades about the interior of the Sun are reviewed here.
In the high dimensional regression analysis when the number of predictors is much larger than the sample size, an important question is to select the important variable which are relevant to the response variable of interest. Variable selection and the multiple testing are both tools to address this issue. However, there is little discussion on the connection of these two areas. When the signal strength is strong enough such that the selection consistency is achievable, it seems to be unnecessary to control the false discovery rate. In this paper, we consider the regime where the signals are both rare and weak such that the selection consistency is not achievable and propose a method which controls the false discovery rate asymptotically. It is theoretically shown that the false non-discovery rate of the proposed method converges to zero at the optimal rate. Numerical results are provided to demonstrate the advantage of the proposed method.
We analyze the data complexity of ontology-mediated querying where the ontologies are formulated in a description logic (DL) of the ALC family and queries are conjunctive queries, positive existential queries, or acyclic conjunctive queries. Our approach is non-uniform in the sense that we aim to understand the complexity of each single ontology instead of for all ontologies formulated in a certain language. While doing so, we quantify over the queries and are interested, for example, in the question whether all queries can be evaluated in polynomial time w.r.t. a given ontology. Our results include a PTime/coNP-dichotomy for ontologies of depth one in the description logic ALCFI, the same dichotomy for ALC- and ALCI-ontologies of unrestricted depth, and the non-existence of such a dichotomy for ALCF-ontologies. For the latter DL, we additionally show that it is undecidable whether a given ontology admits PTime query evaluation. We also consider the connection between PTime query evaluation and rewritability into (monadic) Datalog.
An important statistical task in disease mapping problems is to identify divergent regions with unusually high or low risk of disease. Leave-one-out cross-validatory (LOOCV) model assessment is the gold standard for estimating predictive p-values that can flag such divergent regions. However, actual LOOCV is time-consuming because one needs to rerun a Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis for each posterior distribution in which an observation is held out as a test case. This paper introduces a new method, called integrated importance sampling (iIS), for estimating LOOCV predictive p-values with only Markov chain samples drawn from the posterior based on a full data set. The key step in iIS is that we integrate away the latent variables associated the test observation with respect to their conditional distribution \textit{without} reference to the actual observation. By following the general theory for importance sampling, the formula used by iIS can be proved to be equivalent to the LOOCV predictive p-value. We compare iIS and other three existing methods in the literature with two disease mapping datasets. Our empirical results show that the predictive p-values estimated with iIS are almost identical to the predictive p-values estimated with actual LOOCV, and outperform those given by the existing three methods, namely, the posterior predictive checking, the ordinary importance sampling, and the ghosting method by Marshall and Spiegelhalter (2003).
Two dimensional loop erased random walk (LERW) is a random curve, whose continuum limit is known to be a Schramm-Loewner evolution (SLE) with parameter kappa=2. In this article we study ``off-critical loop erased random walks'', loop erasures of random walks penalized by their number of steps. On one hand we are able to identify counterparts for some LERW observables in terms of symplectic fermions (c=-2), thus making further steps towards a field theoretic description of LERWs. On the other hand, we show that it is possible to understand the Loewner driving function of the continuum limit of off-critical LERWs, thus providing an example of application of SLE-like techniques to models near their critical point. Such a description is bound to be quite complicated because outside the critical point one has a finite correlation length and therefore no conformal invariance. However, the example here shows the question need not be intractable. We will present the results with emphasis on general features that can be expected to be true in other off-critical models.
This paper addresses the problems of relabeling and summarizing posterior distributions that typically arise, in a Bayesian framework, when dealing with signal decomposition problems with an unknown number of components. Such posterior distributions are defined over union of subspaces of differing dimensionality and can be sampled from using modern Monte Carlo techniques, for instance the increasingly popular RJ-MCMC method. No generic approach is available, however, to summarize the resulting variable-dimensional samples and extract from them component-specific parameters. We propose a novel approach, named Variable-dimensional Approximate Posterior for Relabeling and Summarizing (VAPoRS), to this problem, which consists in approximating the posterior distribution of interest by a "simple"---but still variable-dimensional---parametric distribution. The distance between the two distributions is measured using the Kullback-Leibler divergence, and a Stochastic EM-type algorithm, driven by the RJ-MCMC sampler, is proposed to estimate the parameters. Two signal decomposition problems are considered, to show the capability of VAPoRS both for relabeling and for summarizing variable dimensional posterior distributions: the classical problem of detecting and estimating sinusoids in white Gaussian noise on the one hand, and a particle counting problem motivated by the Pierre Auger project in astrophysics on the other hand.
This paper proposes a maintenance platform for business vehicles which detects failure sign using IoT data on the move, orders to create repair parts by 3D printers and to deliver them to the destination. Recently, IoT and 3D printer technologies have been progressed and application cases to manufacturing and maintenance have been increased. Especially in air flight industry, various sensing data are collected during flight by IoT technologies and parts are created by 3D printers. And IoT platforms which improve development/operation of IoT applications also have been appeared. However, existing IoT platforms mainly targets to visualize "things" statuses by batch processing of collected sensing data, and 3 factors of real-time, automatic orders of repair parts and parts stock cost are insufficient to accelerate businesses. This paper targets maintenance of business vehicles such as airplane or high-speed bus. We propose a maintenance platform with real-time analysis, automatic orders of repair parts and minimum stock cost of parts. The proposed platform collects data via closed VPN, analyzes stream data and predicts failures in real-time by online machine learning framework Jubatus, coordinates ERP or SCM via in memory DB to order repair parts and also distributes repair parts data to 3D printers to create repair parts near the destination.
Difference-in-differences (DID) is a method to evaluate the effect of a treatment. In its basic version, a "control group" is untreated at two dates, whereas a "treatment group" becomes fully treated at the second date. However, in many applications of the DID method, the treatment rate only increases more in the treatment group. In such fuzzy designs, a popular estimator of treatment effects is the DID of the outcome divided by the DID of the treatment. We show that this ratio identifies a local average treatment effect only if two homogeneous treatment effect assumptions are satisfied. We then propose two alternative estimands that do not rely on any assumption on treatment effects, and that can be used when the treatment rate does not change over time in the control group. We prove that the corresponding estimators are asymptotically normal. Finally, we use our results to revisit Duflo (2001).
Electron dynamics in crystalline semiconductors is described by distinguishing between an instantaneous velocity related to electron's momentum and an average velocity related to its quasi-momentum in a periodic potential. It is shown that the electron velocity used in the theory of electron transport and free-carrier optics is the average electron velocity, not the instantaneous velocity. An effective mass of charge carriers in solids is considered and it is demonstrated that, in contrast to the "acceleration" mass introduced in textbooks, it is a "velocity" mass relating carrier velocity to its quasi-momentum that is a much more useful physical quantity. Among other advantages, the velocity mass is a scalar for spherical but nonparabolic energy bands $\epsilon(k)$, whereas the acceleration mass is not a scalar. Important applications of the velocity mass are indicated. A two-band ${\bm k}\cdot {\bm \hp}$ model is introduced as the simplest example of a band structure that still keeps track of the periodic lattice potential. It is remarked that the two-band model, adequately describing narrow-gap semiconductors (including zero-gap graphene), strongly resembles the special theory of relativity. Instructive examples of the "semi-relativistic" analogy are given. The presentation has both scientific and pedagogical aspects.
In this paper we study the relative Chow and $K$-stability of toric manifolds in the toric sense. First, we give a criterion for relative $K$-stability and instability of toric Fano manifolds in the toric sense. The reduction of relative Chow stability on toric manifolds will be investigated using the Hibert-Mumford criterion in two ways. One is to consider the maximal torus action and its weight polytope. We obtain a reduction by the strategy of Ono [Ono13], which fits into the relative GIT stability detected by Sz\'ekelyhidi. The other way relies on $\mathbb{C}^*$-actions and Chow weights associated to toric degenerations following Donaldson and Ross-Thomas [D02, RT07]. As applications of our main theorem, we partially determine the relative $K$-stability of toric Fano threefolds and present counter-examples which are relatively $K$-stable in the toric sense but which are asymptotically relatively Chow unstable. In the end, we explain the erroneous parts of the published version of this article (corresponding to Sections 1-5), which provides some inconclusive results for relative $K$-stability in Table 6.
We present a powerful and cost-effective method for active illumination using a digital micromirror device (DMD) for quantitative phase imaging techniques. Displaying binary illumination patterns on a DMD with appropriate spatial filtering, plane waves with various illumination angles are generated and impinged onto a sample. Complex optical fields of the sample obtained with various incident angles are then measured via Mach-Zehnder interferometry, from which a high-resolution two-dimensional synthetic aperture phase image and a three-dimensional refractive index tomogram of the sample are reconstructed. We demonstrate the fast and stable illumination control capability of the proposed method by imaging colloidal spheres and biological cells, including a human red blood cell and a HeLa cell.
The winning condition of a parity game with costs requires an arbitrary, but fixed bound on the cost incurred between occurrences of odd colors and the next occurrence of a larger even one. Such games quantitatively extend parity games while retaining most of their attractive properties, i.e, determining the winner is in NP and co-NP and one player has positional winning strategies. We show that the characteristics of parity games with costs are vastly different when asking for strategies realizing the minimal such bound: The solution problem becomes PSPACE-complete and exponential memory is both necessary in general and always sufficient. Thus, solving and playing parity games with costs optimally is harder than just winning them. Moreover, we show that the tradeoff between the memory size and the realized bound is gradual in general. All these results hold true for both a unary and binary encoding of costs. Moreover, we investigate Streett games with costs. Here, playing optimally is as hard as winning, both in terms of complexity and memory.
The latent block model is used to simultaneously rank the rows and columns of a matrix to reveal a block structure. The algorithms used for estimation are often time consuming. However, recent work shows that the log-likelihood ratios are equivalent under the complete and observed (with unknown labels) models and the groups posterior distribution to converge as the size of the data increases to a Dirac mass located at the actual groups configuration. Based on these observations, the algorithm $Largest$ $Gaps$ is proposed in this paper to perform clustering using only the marginals of the matrix, when the number of blocks is very small with respect to the size of the whole matrix in the case of binary data. In addition, a model selection method is incorporated with a proof of its consistency. Thus, this paper shows that studying simplistic configurations (few blocks compared to the size of the matrix or very contrasting blocks) with complex algorithms is useless since the marginals already give very good parameter and classification estimates.
Normalisation in probability theory turns a subdistribution into a proper distribution. It is a partial operation, since it is undefined for the zero subdistribution. This partiality makes it hard to reason equationally about normalisation. A novel description of normalisation is given as a mathematically well-behaved total function. The output of this `hyper' normalisation operation is a distribution of distributions. It improves reasoning about normalisation. After developing the basics of this theory of (hyper) normalisation, it is put to use in a similarly new description of conditioning, producing a distribution of conditional distributions. This is used to give a clean abstract reformulation of refinement in quantitative information flow.
We study the Brown measure of certain non-hermitian operators arising from Voiculescu's free probability theory. Usually those operators appear as the limit in *-moments of certain ensembles of non-hermitian random matrices, and the Brown measure gives then a canonical candidate for the limit eigenvalue distribution of the random matrices. A prominent class for our operators is given by polynomials in *-free variables. Other explicit examples include R-diagonal elements and elliptic elements, for which the Brown measure was already known, and a new class of triangular-elliptic elements. Our method for the calculation of the Brown measure is based on a rigorous mathematical treatment of the hermitian reduction method, as considered in the physical literature, combined with subordination ideas and the linearization trick.
In [Bianco, L., Giuseppe C., and P. Reverberi. 2001. "A network based model for traffic sensor location with implications on O/D matrix estimates". Transportation Science 35(1):50-60.], the authors present the Sensor Location Problem: that of locating the minimum number of traffic sensors at intersections of a road network such that the traffic flow on the entire network can be determined. They offer a necessary and sufficient condition on the set of monitored nodes in order for the flow everywhere to be determined. In this paper, we present a counterexample that demonstrates that the condition is not actually sufficient (though it is still necessary). We present a stronger necessary condition for flow calculability, and show that it is a sufficient condition in a large class of graphs in which a particular subgraph is a tree. Many typical road networks are included in this category, and we show how our condition can be used to inform traffic sensor placement.
Directional infrared emission at 1367 and 5230 nm is generated in Rb vapours that are step-wise excited by low-power resonant light. The mid-infrared radiation originating from amplified spontaneous emission on the 5D-6P transition consists of forward- and backward-directed components with distinctive spectral and spatial properties. Diffraction limited near-infrared light at 1367 nm generated in the co-propagating direction only is a product of parametric wave mixing around the 5P-5D-6P-6S-5P transition loop. This highly non-degenerate mixing process involves one externally applied and two internally generated optical fields. Similarities between wave mixing generated blue and near-IR light are demonstrated.
To model recurrent interaction events in continuous time, an extension of the stochastic block model is proposed where every individual belongs to a latent group and interactions between two individuals follow a conditional inhomogeneous Poisson process with intensity driven by the individuals' latent groups. The model is shown to be identifiable and its estimation is based on a semiparametric variational expectation-maximization algorithm. Two versions of the method are developed, using either a nonparametric histogram approach (with an adaptive choice of the partition size) or kernel intensity estimators. The number of latent groups can be selected by an integrated classification likelihood criterion. Finally, we demonstrate the performance of our procedure on synthetic experiments, analyse two datasets to illustrate the utility of our approach and comment on competing methods.
Families of steady states of the spherically symmetric Einstein-Vlasov system are constructed, which are parametrized by the central redshift. It is shown that as the central redshift tends to zero, the states in such a family are well approximated by a steady state of the Vlasov-Poisson system, i.e., a Newtonian limit is established where the speed of light is kept constant as it should be and the limiting behavior is analyzed in terms of a parameter which is tied to the physical properties of the individual solutions. This result is then used to investigate the stability properties of the relativistic steady states with small redshift parameter in the spirit of recent work by the same authors, i.e., the second variation of the ADM mass about such a steady state is shown to be positive definite on a suitable class of states.
In the current hyper-connected era, modern Information and Communication Technology systems form sophisticated networks where not only do people interact with other people, but also machines take an increasingly visible and participatory role. Such human-machine networks (HMNs) are embedded in the daily lives of people, both for personal and professional use. They can have a significant impact by producing synergy and innovations. The challenge in designing successful HMNs is that they cannot be developed and implemented in the same manner as networks of machines nodes alone, nor following a wholly human-centric view of the network. The problem requires an interdisciplinary approach. Here, we review current research of relevance to HMNs across many disciplines. Extending the previous theoretical concepts of socio-technical systems, actor-network theory, cyber-physical-social systems, and social machines, we concentrate on the interactions among humans and between humans and machines. We identify eight types of HMNs: public-resource computing, crowdsourcing, web search engines, crowdsensing, online markets, social media, multiplayer online games and virtual worlds, and mass collaboration. We systematically select literature on each of these types and review it with a focus on implications for designing HMNs. Moreover, we discuss risks associated with HMNs and identify emerging design and development trends.
Based on elastic collisions, the linear momentum of a fast neutron can be measured from as few as two consecutive recoil ion tracks plus the vertex position of the third collision, or `two and half' ion tracks. If the time delay between the first two consecutive ion tracks is also measured, the number of ion tracks can be reduced to one and a half. The angular and magnitude resolutions are limited by ion range straggling to about ten percent. Multi-wire proportional chambers and light-field imaging are discussed for fast neutron tracking. Single-charge or single-photon detection sensitivity is required in either approach. Light-field imaging is free of charge-diffusion-induced image blur, but the limited number of photons available can be a challenge. $^1$H,$^2$H and $^3$He could be used for the initial development of fast neutron trackers based on light-field imaging.
Publication bias, the fact that studies identified for inclusion in a meta analysis do not represent all studies on the topic of interest, is commonly recognized as a threat to the validity of the results of a meta analysis. One way to explicitly model publication bias is via selection models or weighted probability distributions. We adopt the nonparametric approach initially introduced by Dear (1992) but impose that the weight function $w$ is monotonely non-increasing as a function of the $p$-value. Since in meta analysis one typically only has few studies or "observations", regularization of the estimation problem seems sensible. In addition, virtually all parametric weight functions proposed so far in the literature are in fact decreasing. We discuss how to estimate a decreasing weight function in the above model and illustrate the new methodology on two well-known examples. The new approach potentially offers more insight in the selection process than other methods and is more flexible than parametric approaches. Some basic properties of the log-likelihood function and computation of a $p$-value quantifying the evidence against the null hypothesis of a constant weight function are indicated. In addition, we provide an approximate selection bias adjusted profile likelihood confidence interval for the treatment effect. The corresponding software and the datasets used to illustrate it are provided as the R package selectMeta. This enables full reproducibility of the results in this paper.
A path in an edge-colored graph $G$ is rainbow if no two edges of it are colored the same. The graph $G$ is rainbow-connected if there is a rainbow path between every pair of vertices. If there is a rainbow shortest path between every pair of vertices, the graph $G$ is strongly rainbow-connected. The minimum number of colors needed to make $G$ rainbow-connected is known as the rainbow connection number of $G$, and is denoted by $\text{rc}(G)$. Similarly, the minimum number of colors needed to make $G$ strongly rainbow-connected is known as the strong rainbow connection number of $G$, and is denoted by $\text{src}(G)$. We prove that for every $k \geq 3$, deciding whether $\text{src}(G) \leq k$ is NP-complete for split graphs, which form a subclass of chordal graphs. Furthermore, there exists no polynomial-time algorithm for approximating the strong rainbow connection number of an $n$-vertex split graph with a factor of $n^{1/2-\epsilon}$ for any $\epsilon > 0$ unless P = NP. We then turn our attention to block graphs, which also form a subclass of chordal graphs. We determine the strong rainbow connection number of block graphs, and show it can be computed in linear time. Finally, we provide a polynomial-time characterization of bridgeless block graphs with rainbow connection number at most 4.
Apart from presenting some new insights and results, one of our main purposes is to put some records in the development of von Neumann modules straight. The von Neumann or $W^*$-objects among the Hilbert ($C^*$-)modules are around since the first papers by Paschke (1973) and Rieffel (1974) that lift Kaplansky's setting (1953) to modules over noncommutative $C^*$-algebras. While the formal definition of $W^*$-modules} is due to Baillet, Denizeau, and Havet (1988), the one of von Neumann modules as strongly closed operator spaces started with Skeide (2000). It has been paired with the definition of concrete von Neumann modules in Skeide (2006). It is well-known that (pre-)Hilbert modules can be viewed as ternary rings of operators and in their definition of Hilbert-von Neumann modules, Bikram, Mukherjee, Srinivasan, and Sunder (2012) take that point of view. We illustrate that a (suitably nondegenerate) Hilbert-von Neumann module is the same thing as a strongly full concrete von Neumann module. We also use this occasion to put some things in earlier papers right. We show that the tensor product of (concrete, or not) von Neumann correspondences is, indeed, (a generalization of) the tensor product of Connes correspondences (claimed in Skeide (2008)), viewed in a way quite different from Bikram et al.. We also present some new arguments that are useful even for (pre-)Hilbert modules.
The class of joint decoder of probabilistic fingerprinting codes is of utmost importance in theoretical papers to establish the concept of fingerprint capacity. However, no implementation supporting a large user base is known to date. This article presents an iterative decoder which is, as far as we are aware of, the first practical attempt towards joint decoding. The discriminative feature of the scores benefits on one hand from the side-information of previously accused users, and on the other hand, from recently introduced universal linear decoders for compound channels. Neither the code construction nor the decoder make precise assumptions about the collusion (size or strategy). The extension to incorporate soft outputs from the watermarking layer is straightforward. An extensive experimental work benchmarks the very good performance and offers a clear comparison with previous state-of-the-art decoders.
Energy-efficient communication using a class of spatial modulation (SM) that encodes the source information entirely in the antenna indices is considered in this paper. The energy-efficient modulation design is formulated as a convex optimization problem, where minimum achievable average symbol power consumption is derived with rate, performance, and hardware constraints. The theoretical result bounds any modulation scheme of this class, and encompasses the existing space shift keying (SSK), generalized SSK (GSSK), and Hamming code-aided SSK (HSSK) schemes as special cases. The theoretical optimum is achieved by the proposed practical energy-efficient HSSK (EE-HSSK) scheme that incorporates a novel use of the Hamming code and Huffman code techniques in the alphabet and bit-mapping designs. Experimental studies demonstrate that EE-HSSK significantly outperforms existing schemes in achieving near-optimal energy efficiency. An analytical exposition of key properties of the existing GSSK (including SSK) modulation that motivates a fundamental consideration for the proposed energy-efficient modulation design is also provided.
What is aging? Mechanistic answers to this question remain elusive despite decades of research. Here, we propose a mathematical model of cellular aging based on a model gene interaction network. Our network model is made of only non-aging components - the biological functions of gene interactions decrease with a constant mortality rate. Death of a cell occurs in the model when an essential gene loses all of its interactions to other genes, equivalent to the deletion of an essential gene. Gene interactions are stochastic based on a binomial distribution. We show that the defining characteristic of biological aging, the exponential increase of mortality rate over time, can arise from this gene network model during the early stage of aging. Hence, we demonstrate that cellular aging is an emergent property of this model network. Our model predicts that the rate of aging, defined by the Gompertz coefficient, is approximately proportional to the average number of active interactions per gene and that the stochastic heterogeneity of gene interactions is an important factor in the dynamics of the aging process. This theoretic framework offers a mechanistic foundation for the pleiotropic nature of aging and can provide insights on cellular aging.
In this paper, we consider diffeological spaces as stacks over the site of smooth manifolds, as well as the "underlying" diffeological space of any stack. More precisely, we consider diffeological spaces as so-called concrete sheaves and show that the Grothendieck construction sending these sheaves to stacks has a left adjoint: the functor sending any stack to its diffeological coarse moduli space. As an application, we restrict our attention to differentiable stacks and examine the geometry behind the coarse moduli space construction in terms of Lie groupoids and their principal bundles. Within this context, we define a "gerbe", and show when a Lie groupoid is such a gerbe (or when a stack is represented by one). Additionally, we define basic differential forms for stacks and confirm in the differentiable case that these agree (under certain conditions) with basic differential forms on a representative Lie groupoid. These basic differentiable forms in turn match the diffeological forms on the orbit space.
Let ${\cal M}_{g,[n]}$, for $2g-2+n>0$, be the D-M moduli stack of smooth curves of genus $g$ labeled by $n$ unordered distinct points. The main result of the paper is that a finite, connected \'etale cover ${\cal M}^\l$ of ${\cal M}_{g,[n]}$, defined over a sub-$p$-adic field $k$, is "almost" anabelian in the sense conjectured by Grothendieck for curves and their moduli spaces. The precise result is the following. Let $\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}})$ be the geometric algebraic fundamental group of ${\cal M}^\l$ and let ${Out}^*(\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}}))$ be the group of its exterior automorphisms which preserve the conjugacy classes of elements corresponding to simple loops around the Deligne-Mumford boundary of ${\cal M}^\l$ (this is the "$\ast$-condition" motivating the "almost" above). Let us denote by ${Out}^*_{G_k}(\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}}))$ the subgroup consisting of elements which commute with the natural action of the absolute Galois group $G_k$ of $k$. Let us assume, moreover, that the generic point of the D-M stack ${\cal M}^\l$ has a trivial automorphisms group. Then, there is a natural isomorphism: $${Aut}_k({\cal M}^\l)\cong{Out}^*_{G_k}(\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}})).$$ This partially extends to moduli spaces of curves the anabelian properties proved by Mochizuki for hyperbolic curves over sub-$p$-adic fields.
A polarization entangled photon pair source is widely used in many quantum information processing applications such as teleportation, quantum swapping, quantum computation and high precision quantum metrology. Here, we report on the generation of a continuous-wave pumped degenerated 1550 nm polarization entangled photon pair source at telecom wavelength using a type-II phase-matched periodically poled KTiOPO4 crystal in a Sagnac interferometer. Hong-Ou-Mandel-type interference measurement shows the photon bandwidth of 2.4 nm. High quality of entanglement is verified by various kinds of measurements, for example two-photon interference fringes, Bell inequality and quantum states tomography. The wavelength of photons can be tuned over a broad range by changing the temperature of crystal or pump power without losing the quality of entanglement. This source will be useful for building up long-distance quantum networks.
Suppose you're on a game show, and you're given the choice of three doors: Behind one door is a car; behind the others, goats. You pick a door, say No. 1, and the host, who knows what's behind the doors, opens another door, say No. 3, which has a goat. He then says to you, ``Do you want to pick door No. 2?'' Is it to your advantage to switch your choice? The answer is ``yes'' but the literature offers many reasons why this is the correct answer. The present paper argues that the most common reasoning found in introductory statistics texts, depending on making a number of ``obvious'' or ``natural'' assumptions and then computing a conditional probability, is a classical example of solution driven science. The best reason to switch is to be found in von Neumann's minimax theorem from game theory, rather than in Bayes' theorem.
In this review, intended for non-specialists and beginners, we recount the current status of the theory of jet modification in dense matter. We commence with an outline of the "traditional" observables which may be calculated without recourse to event generators. These include single and double hadron suppression, nuclear modification factor versus reaction plane etc. All of these measurements are used to justify both the required underlying physical picture of jet modification as well as the final obtained values of jet transport coefficients. This is followed by a review of the more modern observables which have arisen with the ability to reconstruct full jets, and the challenges faced therein. This is followed by a preview of upcoming theoretical developments in the field and an outlook on how the interface between these developments, phenomenological improvements, and upcoming data will allow us to quantitatively determine properties of the medium which effect the modification of hard jets.
We consider two ensembles of nxn matrices. The first is the set of all nxn matrices with entries zeroes and ones such that all column sums and all row sums equal r, uniformly weighted. The second is the set of nxn matrices with zero and one entries where the probability that any given entry is one is r/n, the probabilities of the set of individual entries being i.i.d.'s. Calling the two expectation values E and EB respectively, we develop a formal relation E(perm(A)) = EB(perm (A)) x exp{sum Ti}. We also use a well-known approximating ensemble to E, E1. We prove using E or E1 one obtains the same value of Ti for i < 21. (THE PUBLISHED VERSION OF THIS PAPER ONLY OBTAINS RESULTS FOR i < 8. We go beyond the results of the published version by taking much more advantage of recent work of Pernici and of Wanless on i-matchings on regular bipartite graphs.)These terms Ti, i < 21, have amazing properties. We conjecture that these properties hold also for all i.
We propose two new definitions of the exponential function on time scales. The first definition is based on the Cayley transformation while the second one is a natural extension of exact discretizations. Our eponential functions map the imaginary axis into the unit circle. Therefore, it is possible to define hyperbolic and trigonometric functions on time scales in a standard way. The resulting functions preserve most of the qualitative properties of the corresponding continuous functions. In particular, Pythagorean trigonometric identities hold exactly on any time scale. Dynamic equations satisfied by Cayley-motivated functions have a natural similarity to the corresponding diferential equations. The exact discretization is less convenient as far as dynamic equations and differentiation is concerned.
In this work we theoretically suggest and consider a realistic experiment of single photon interference at beam splitter where micro-detector of the photon trajectories is presented by single atom. It admits studying of the quantum entanglement between photon and detector (Schr\"odinger cat effect) which clearly demonstrates that detection procedure (collapse) has no any absolute character. Also it admits modeling of the collapse by spontaneous (non-dynamical) unitary symmetry (superposition) breaking (effective hiding) by quantum-classical continuous phase transition. (Practically, collapse can be considered as an especial case of the general formalism of spontaneous symmetry breaking.) Finally it admits a simple solution of the quantum mechanics foundation problem.
Granular materials do not flow homogeneously like fluids when submitted to external stress,but often form rigid regions that are separated by narrow shear bands where the material yields and flows. This shear localization impacts their apparent rheology, which makes it difficult to infer a constitutive behaviour from conventional rheometric measurements. Moreover, they present a dilatant behaviour, which makes their study in classical fixedvolume geometries difficult. These features led to perform extensive studies with inclined plane flows, which were of crucial importance for the development and the validation of the $\mu(I)$ rheology. Our aim is to develop a method to characterize granular materials with rheometrical tools. Using unusual rheometry measurements in an annular shear cell adapted from Boyer et al. (2011), dense granular flows are studied. A focus is placed on the comparison between the present results and the $\mu(I)$-rheology.
We construct Hamiltonian Floer complexes associated to continuous, and even lower semi-continuous, time dependent exhaustion functions on geometrically bounded symplectic manifolds. We further construct functorial continuation maps associated to monotone homotopies between them, and operations which give rise to a product and unit. The work rests on novel techniques for energy confinement of Floer solutions as well as on methods of Non-Archimedean analysis. The definition for general Hamiltonians utilizes the notion of reduced cohomology familiar from Riemannian geometry, and the continuity properties of Floer cohomology. This gives rise in particular to localized Floer theory. We discuss various functorial properties as well as some applications to existence of periodic orbits and to displaceability.
We characterize Leavitt path algebras which are Rickart, Baer, and Baer $*$-rings in terms of the properties of the underlying graph. In order to treat non-unital Leavitt path algebras as well, we generalize these annihilator-related properties to locally unital rings and provide a more general characterizations of Leavitt path algebras which are locally Rickart, locally Baer, and locally Baer $*$-rings. Leavitt path algebras are also graded rings and we formulate the graded versions of these annihilator-related properties and characterize Leavitt path algebras having those properties as well. Our characterizations provide a quick way to generate a wide variety of examples of rings. For example, creating a Baer and not a Baer $*$-ring, a Rickart $*$-ring which is not Baer, or a Baer and not a Rickart $*$-ring, is straightforward using the graph-theoretic properties from our results. In addition, our characterizations showcase more properties which distinguish behavior of Leavitt path algebras from their $C^*$-algebra counterparts. For example, while a graph $C^*$-algebra is Baer (and a Baer $*$-ring) if and only if the underlying graph is finite and acyclic, a Leavitt path algebra is Baer if and only if the graph is finite and no cycle has an exit, and it is a Baer $*$-ring if and only if the graph is a finite disjoint union of graphs which are finite and acyclic or loops.
We present models of dormancy in a planktonic culture and in biofilm, and examine the relative advantage of short dormancy versus long dormancy times in each case. Simulations and analyses indicate that in planktonic batch cultures and in chemostats, live biomass is maximized by the fastest possible exit from dormancy. The lower limit of time to reawakening is thus perhaps governed by physiological, biochemical or other constraints within the cells. In biofilm we see that the slower waker has a defensive advantage over the fast waker due to a larger amount of dormant biomass, without an appreciable difference in total live biomass. Thus it would seem that typical laboratory culture conditions can be unrepresentative of the natural state. We discuss the computational methods developed for this work.
In this work, we study hole transport in a planar silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor based double quantum dot. We demonstrate Pauli spin blockade in the few hole regime and map the spin relaxation induced leakage current as a function of inter-dot level spacing and magnetic field. With varied inter-dot tunnel coupling we can identify different dominant spin relaxation mechanisms. Applying a strong out-of-plane magnetic field causes an avoided singlet-triplet level crossing, from which the heavy hole g-factor $\sim$ 0.93, and the strength of spin-orbit interaction $\sim$ 110 $\mu$eV, can be obtained. The demonstrated strong spin-orbit interaction of heavy hole promises fast local spin manipulation using only electrical fields, which is of great interest for quantum information processing.
This paper describes a computational model, called the Dirichlet process Gaussian mixture model with latent joints (DPGMM-LJ), that can find latent tree structure embedded in data distribution in an unsupervised manner. By combining DPGMM-LJ and a pre-existing body map formation method, we propose a method that enables an agent having multi-link body structure to discover its kinematic structure, i.e., body schema, from tactile information alone. The DPGMM-LJ is a probabilistic model based on Bayesian nonparametrics and an extension of Dirichlet process Gaussian mixture model (DPGMM). In a simulation experiment, we used a simple fetus model that had five body parts and performed structured random movements in a womb-like environment. It was shown that the method could estimate the number of body parts and kinematic structures without any pre-existing knowledge in many cases. Another experiment showed that the degree of motor coordination in random movements affects the result of body schema formation strongly. It is confirmed that the accuracy rate for body schema estimation had the highest value 84.6% when the ratio of motor coordination was 0.9 in our setting. These results suggest that kinematic structure can be estimated from tactile information obtained by a fetus moving randomly in a womb without any visual information even though its accuracy was not so high. They also suggest that a certain degree of motor coordination in random movements and the sufficient dimension of state space that represents the body map are important to estimate body schema correctly.
We investigate relations between best selling artists in last decade on phonographic market and from perspective of listeners by using the Social Network Analyzes. Starting network is obtained from the matrix of correlations between the world's best selling artists by considering the synchronous time evolution of weekly record sales. This method reveals the structure of phonographic market, but we claim that it has no impact on people who see relationship between artists and music genres. We compare 'sale' (based on correlation of record sales) or 'popularity' (based on data mining of the record charts) networks with 'similarity' (obtained mainly from survey within music experts opinion) and find no significant relations. We postulate that non-laminar phenomena on this specific market introduce turbulence to how people view relations of artists.
We define a weakly threshold sequence to be a degree sequence $d=(d_1,\dots,d_n)$ of a graph having the property that $\sum_{i \leq k} d_i \geq k(k-1)+\sum_{i > k} \min\{k,d_i\} - 1$ for all positive $k \leq \max\{i:d_i \geq i-1\}$. The weakly threshold graphs are the realizations of the weakly threshold sequences. The weakly threshold graphs properly include the threshold graphs and satisfy pleasing extensions of many properties of threshold graphs. We demonstrate a majorization property of weakly threshold sequences and an iterative construction algorithm for weakly threshold graphs, as well as a forbidden induced subgraph characterization. We conclude by exactly enumerating weakly threshold sequences and graphs.
We discuss a scheme of nonperturbative pair production by high energy photons ($\omega\gtrsim m$) in a strong external field achievable at the next high intensity laser experiments. The pair momentum is boosted and for $\omega\gtrsim 1.2m$ the pair yield is increased when the external field is formed by two laser pulses converging at a small angle. These characteristics are nonperturbative in origin and related to the presence of magnetic field in addition to electric field. By enhancing the signal over perturbative backgrounds, these features allow the employment of above-threshold photons $\omega>2m$, which further increases the pair yield. We note the close relation of this photon-pair conversion mechanism to spontaneous pair creation, recommending it as an accessible stepping stone experiment using state-of-the-art or soon-to-be laser technology.
In this paper we analyze the Cardy-Lewellen equation in general diagonal model. We show that in these models it takes simple form due to some general properties of conformal field theories, like pentagon equations and OPE associativity. This implies, that the Cardy-Lewellen equation has simple form also in non-rational diagonal models. We specialize our finding to the Liouville and Toda field theories. In particular we prove, that conjectured recently defects in Toda field theory indeed satisfy the cluster equation. We also derive the Cardy-Lewellen equation in all $sl(n)$ Toda field theories and prove that the forms of boundary states found recently in $sl(3)$ Toda field theory hold in all $sl(n)$ theories as well.
We report the fabrication of artificial unidimensional crystals exhibiting an effective bulk second-order nonlinearity. The crystals are created by cycling atomic layer deposition of three dielectric materials such that the resulting metamaterial is non-centrosymmetric in the direction of the deposition. Characterization of the structures by second-harmonic generation Maker-fringe measurements shows that the main component of their nonlinear susceptibility tensor is about 5 pm/V which is comparable to well-established materials and more than an order of magnitude greater than reported for a similar crystal [1-Alloatti et al, arXiv:1504.00101[cond-mat.mtrl- sci]]. Our demonstration opens new possibilities for second-order nonlinear effects on CMOS-compatible nanophotonic platforms.
Algorithms can be used to prove and to discover new theorems. This paper shows how algorithmic skills in general, and the notion of invariance in particular, can be used to derive many results from Euclid's algorithm. We illustrate how to use the algorithm as a verification interface (i.e., how to verify theorems) and as a construction interface (i.e., how to investigate and derive new theorems). The theorems that we verify are well-known and most of them are included in standard number theory books. The new results concern distributivity properties of the greatest common divisor and a new algorithm for efficiently enumerating the positive rationals in two different ways. One way is known and is due to Moshe Newman. The second is new and corresponds to a deforestation of the Stern-Brocot tree of rationals. We show that both enumerations stem from the same simple algorithm. In this way, we construct a Stern-Brocot enumeration algorithm with the same time and space complexity as Newman's algorithm. A short review of the original papers by Stern and Brocot is also included.
The separability problem for word languages of a class $\mathcal{C}$ by languages of a class $\mathcal{S}$ asks, for two given languages $I$ and $E$ from $\mathcal{C}$, whether there exists a language $S$ from $\mathcal{S}$ that includes $I$ and excludes $E$, that is, $I \subseteq S$ and $S\cap E = \emptyset$. In this work, we assume some mild closure properties for $\mathcal{C}$ and study for which such classes separability by a piecewise testable language (PTL) is decidable. We characterize these classes in terms of decidability of (two variants of) an unboundedness problem. From this, we deduce that separability by PTL is decidable for a number of language classes, such as the context-free languages and languages of labeled vector addition systems. Furthermore, it follows that separability by PTL is decidable if and only if one can compute for any language of the class its downward closure wrt. the scattered substring ordering (i.e., if the set of scattered substrings of any language of the class is effectively regular). The obtained decidability results contrast some undecidability results. In fact, for all (non-regular) language classes that we present as examples with decidable separability, it is undecidable whether a given language is a PTL itself. Our characterization involves a result of independent interest, which states that for any kind of languages $I$ and $E$, non-separability by PTL is equivalent to the existence of common patterns in $I$ and $E$.
In this paper, we numerically study the ground and first excited states of the fractional Schrodinger equation in an infinite potential well. Due to the non-locality of the fractional Laplacian, it is challenging to find the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the fractional Schrodinger equation either analytically or numerically. We first introduce a fractional gradient flow with discrete normalization and then discretize it by using the trapezoidal type quadrature rule in space and the semi-implicit Euler method in time. Our method can be used to compute the ground and first excited states not only in the linear cases but also in the nonlinear cases. Moreover, it can be generalized to solve the fractional partial differential equations (PDEs) with Riesz fractional derivatives in space. Our numerical results suggest that the eigenfunctions of the fractional Schrodinger equation in an infinite potential well are significantly different from those of the standard (non-fractional) Schrodinger equation. In addition, we find that the strong nonlocal interactions represented by the fractional Laplacian can lead to a large scattering of particles inside of the potential well. Compared to the ground states, the scattering of particles in the first excited states is larger. Furthermore, boundary layers emerge in the ground states and additionally inner layers exist in the first excited states of the fractional nonlinear Schrodinger equation.
In a MIMO radar network the multiple transmit elements may emit waveforms that differ on power and bandwidth. In this paper, we are asking, given that these two resources are limited, what is the optimal power, optimal bandwidth and optimal joint power and bandwidth allocation for best localization of multiple targets. The well known Cr\'amer-Rao lower bound for target localization accuracy is used as a figure of merit and approximate solutions are found by minimizing a sequence of convex problems. Their quality is assessed through extensive numerical simulations and with the help of a lower-bound on the true solution. Simulations results reveal that bandwidth allocation policies have a definitely stronger impact on performance than power.
We introduce the notion of a positive opetope and positive opetopic cardinals as certain finite combinatorial structures. The positive opetopic cardinals to positive-to-one polygraphs are like simple graphs to free omega-categories over omega-graphs, c.f. [MZ]. In particular, they allow us to give an explicit combinatorial description of positive-to-one polygraphs. Using this description we show, among other things, that positive-to-one polygraphs form a presheaf category with the exponent category being the category of positive opetopes. We also show that the category of omega-categories is monadic over the category of positive-to-one polygraphs with the `free functor' being an inclusion.
We pursue the analysis of nesting statistics in the $O(n)$ loop model on random maps, initiated for maps with the topology of disks and cylinders in math-ph/1605.02239, here for arbitrary topologies. For this purpose we rely on the topological recursion results of math-ph/0910.5896 and math-ph/1303.5808 for the enumeration of maps in the $O(n)$ model. We characterize the generating series of maps of genus $g$ with $k'$ marked points and $k$ boundaries and realizing a fixed nesting graph. These generating series are amenable to explicit computations in the loop model with bending energy on triangulations, and we characterize their behavior at criticality in the dense and in the dilute phase.
We consider the wave equation on a manifold $(\Omega,g)$ of dimension $d\geq 2$ with smooth strictly convex boundary $\partial\Omega\neq\emptyset$, with Dirichlet boundary conditions. We construct a sharp local in time parametrix and then proceed to obtain dispersion estimates: our fixed time decay rate for the Green function exhibits a $t^{1/4}$ loss with respect to the boundary less case. We precisely describe where and when these losses occur and relate them to swallowtail type singularities in the wave front set, proving that our decay is optimal. Moreover, we derive better than expected Strichartz estimates, balancing lossy long time estimates at a given incidence with short time ones with no loss: for $d=3$, it heuristically means that, on average the decay loss is only $t^{1/6}$.
Activity of modern scholarship creates online footprints galore. Along with traditional metrics of research quality, such as citation counts, online images of researchers and institutions increasingly matter in evaluating academic impact, decisions about grant allocation, and promotion. We examined 400 biographical Wikipedia articles on academics from four scientific fields to test if being featured in the world's largest online encyclopedia is correlated with higher academic notability (assessed through citation counts). We found no statistically significant correlation between Wikipedia articles metrics (length, number of edits, number of incoming links from other articles, etc.) and academic notability of the mentioned researchers. We also did not find any evidence that the scientists with better WP representation are necessarily more prominent in their fields. In addition, we inspected the Wikipedia coverage of notable scientists sampled from Thomson Reuters list of "highly cited researchers". In each of the examined fields, Wikipedia failed in covering notable scholars properly. Both findings imply that Wikipedia might be producing an inaccurate image of academics on the front end of science. By shedding light on how public perception of academic progress is formed, this study alerts that a subjective element might have been introduced into the hitherto structured system of academic evaluation.
A theoretical study of differences in broadband high-index-contrast grating (HCG) reflectors for TM and TE polarizations is presented, covering various grating parameters and properties of HCGs. It is shown that the HCG reflectors for TM polarization (TM HCG reflectors) have much thicker grating thicknesses and smaller grating periods than the TE HCG reflectors. This difference is found to originate from the different boundary conditions met for the electric field of each polarization. Due to this difference, the TM HCG reflectors have much shorter evanescent extension of HCG modes into low-refractive-index media surrounding the HCG. This enables to achieve a very short effective cavity length for VCSELs, which is essential for ultrahigh speed VCSELs and MEMS-tunable VCSELs. The obtained understandings on polarization dependences will be able to serve as important design guidelines for various HCG-based devices.
We study varieties of certain ordered $\Sigma$-algebras with restricted completeness and continuity properties. We give a general characterization of their free algebras in terms of submonads of the monad of $\Sigma$-coterms. Varieties of this form are called \emph{quasi-regular}. For example, we show that if $E$ is a set of inequalities between finite $\Sigma$-terms, and if $\mathcal{V}_\omega$ and $\mathcal{V}_\mathrm{reg}$ denote the varieties of all $\omega$-continuous ordered $\Sigma$-algebras and regular ordered $\Sigma$-algebras satisfying $E$, respectively, then the free $\mathcal{V}_\mathrm{reg}$-algebra $F_\mathrm{reg}(X)$ on generators $X$ is the subalgebra of the corresponding free $\mathcal{V}_\omega$-algebra $F_\omega(X)$ determined by those elements of $F_\omega(X)$ denoted by the regular $\Sigma$-coterms. This is a special case of a more general construction that applies to any quasi-regular family. Examples include the *-continuous Kleene algebras, context-free languages, $\omega$-continuous semirings and $\omega$-continuous idempotent semirings, OI-macro languages, and iteration theories.
If $\Sigma=(X,\sigma)$ is a topological dynamical system, where $X$ is a compact Hausdorff space and $\sigma$ is a homeomorphism of $X$, then a crossed product Banach $\sp{*}$-algebra $\ell^1(\Sigma)$ is naturally associated with these data. If $X$ consists of one point, then $\ell^1(\Sigma)$ is the group algebra of the integers. The commutant $C(X)'_1$ of $C(X)$ in $\ell^1(\Sigma)$ is known to be a maximal abelian subalgebra which has non-zero intersection with each non-zero closed ideal, and the same holds for the commutant $C(X)'_*$ of $C(X)$ in $C^*(\Sigma)$, the enveloping $C^*$-algebra of $\ell^1(\Sigma)$. This intersection property has proven to be a valuable tool in investigating these algebras. Motivated by this pivotal role, we study $C(X)'_1$ and $C(X)'_*$ in detail in the present paper. The maximal ideal space of $C(X)'_1$ is described explicitly, and is seen to coincide with its pure state space and to be a topological quotient of $X\times\mathbb{T}$. We show that $C(X)'_1$ is hermitian and semisimple, and that its enveloping $C^*$-algebra is $C(X)'_*$. Furthermore, we establish necessary and sufficient conditions for projections onto $C(X)'_1$ and $C(X)'_*$ to exist, and give explicit formulas for such projections, which we show to be unique. In the appendix, topological results for the periodic points of a homeomorphism of a locally compact Hausdorff space are given.
An important issue with oversampled FIR analysis filter banks (FBs) is to determine inverse synthesis FBs, when they exist. Given any complex oversampled FIR analysis FB, we first provide an algorithm to determine whether there exists an inverse FIR synthesis system. We also provide a method to ensure the Hermitian symmetry property on the synthesis side, which is serviceable to processing real-valued signals. As an invertible analysis scheme corresponds to a redundant decomposition, there is no unique inverse FB. Given a particular solution, we parameterize the whole family of inverses through a null space projection. The resulting reduced parameter set simplifies design procedures, since the perfect reconstruction constrained optimization problem is recast as an unconstrained optimization problem. The design of optimized synthesis FBs based on time or frequency localization criteria is then investigated, using a simple yet efficient gradient algorithm.
We prove the existence and uniqueness of probabilistically strong solutions to stochastic porous media equations driven by time-dependent multiplicative noise on a general measure space $(E, \mathscr{B}(E), \mu)$, and the Laplacian replaced by a self-adjoint operator $L$. In the case of Lipschitz nonlinearities $\Psi$, we in particular generalize previous results for open $E\subset \mathbb{R}^d$ and $L\!\!=$Laplacian to fractional Laplacians. We also generalize known results on general measure spaces, where we succeeded in dropping the transience assumption on $L$, in extending the set of allowed initial data and in avoiding the restriction to superlinear behavior of $\Psi$ at infinity for $L^2(\mu)$-initial data.
We discuss the development, verification, and performance of a GPU accelerated discontinuous Galerkin method for the solutions of two dimensional nonlinear shallow water equations. The shallow water equations are hyperbolic partial differential equations and are widely used in the simulation of tsunami wave propagations. Our algorithms are tailored to take advantage of the single instruction multiple data (SIMD) architecture of graphic processing units. The time integration is accelerated by local time stepping based on a multi-rate Adams-Bashforth scheme. A total variational bounded limiter is adopted for nonlinear stability of the numerical scheme. This limiter is coupled with a mass and momentum conserving positivity preserving limiter for the special treatment of a dry or partially wet element in the triangulation. Accuracy, robustness and performance are demonstrated with the aid of test cases. We compare the performance of the kernels expressed in a portable threading language OCCA, when cross compiled with OpenCL, CUDA, and OpenMP at runtime.
We review some recent endeavors and add some new results to characterize and understand underlying mechanisms in Wikipedia (WP), the paradigmatic example of collaborative value production. We analyzed the statistics of editorial activity in different languages and observed typical circadian and weekly patterns, which enabled us to estimate the geographical origins of contributions to WPs in languages spoken in several time zones. Using a recently introduced measure we showed that the editorial activities have intrinsic dependencies in the burstiness of events. A comparison of the English and Simple English WPs revealed important aspects of language complexity and showed how peer cooperation solved the task of enhancing readability. One of our focus issues was characterizing the conflicts or edit wars in WPs, which helped us to automatically filter out controversial pages. When studying the temporal evolution of the controversiality of such pages we identified typical patterns and classified conflicts accordingly. Our quantitative analysis provides the basis of modeling conflicts and their resolution in collaborative environments and contribute to the understanding of this issue, which becomes increasingly important with the development of information communication technology.
Flexible grid optical networks allow a better exploitation of fiber capacity, by enabling a denser frequency allocation. A tighter channel spacing, however, requires narrower filters, which increase linear intersymbol interference (ISI), and may dramatically reduce system reach. Commercial coherent receivers are based on symbol by symbol detectors, which are quite sensitive to ISI. In this context, Nyquist spacing is considered as the ultimate limit to wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) packing. In this paper, we show that by introducing a limited-complexity trellis processing at the receiver, either the reach of Nyquist WDM flexi-grid networks can be significantly extended, or a denser-than-Nyquist channel packing (i.e., a higher spectral efficiency (SE)) is possible at equal reach. By adopting well-known information-theoretic techniques, we design a limited-complexity trellis processing and quantify its SE gain in flexi-grid architectures where wavelength selective switches over a frequency grid of 12.5GHz are employed.
We consider a branching-selection system in $\mathbb {R}$ with $N$ particles which give birth independently at rate 1 and where after each birth the leftmost particle is erased, keeping the number of particles constant. We show that, as $N\to\infty$, the empirical measure process associated to the system converges in distribution to a deterministic measure-valued process whose densities solve a free boundary integro-differential equation. We also show that this equation has a unique traveling wave solution traveling at speed $c$ or no such solution depending on whether $c\geq a$ or $c<a$, where $a$ is the asymptotic speed of the branching random walk obtained by ignoring the removal of the leftmost particles in our process. The traveling wave solutions correspond to solutions of Wiener-Hopf equations.
Following the recent theoretical predictions given in a paper [PRA 88, 013810 (2013)], we reported on an experimental realization of an image cloning beyond usual diffraction through coherent population trapping (CPT) effect in a hot rubidium vapor. In our experiment, an alphabet image was transferred from a coupling field to a probe field based on the CPT effect. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the cloned probe field carrying the image transmitted without usual diffraction. To our best knowledge, there is no any such an experimental report about images cloning beyond diffraction. We believe this mechanism based on CPT definitely has important applications in image metrology, image processing and biological imaging.
This paper formulates an inverse power flow problem which is to infer a nodal admittance matrix (hence the network structure of a power system) from voltage and current phasors measured at a number of buses. We show that the admittance matrix can be uniquely identified from a sequence of measurements corresponding to different steady states when every node in the system is equipped with a measurement device, and a Kron-reduced admittance matrix can be determined even if some nodes in the system are not monitored (hidden nodes). Furthermore, we propose effective algorithms based on graph theory to uncover the actual admittance matrix of radial systems with hidden nodes. We provide theoretical guarantees for the recovered admittance matrix and demonstrate that the actual admittance matrix can be fully recovered even from the Kron-reduced admittance matrix under some mild assumptions. Simulations on standard test systems confirm that these algorithms are capable of providing accurate estimates of the admittance matrix from noisy sensor data.
Let $G$ be the interior domain of a piecewise analytic Jordan curve without cusps. Let $\{p_n\}_{n=0}^\infty$ be the sequence of polynomials that are orthonormal over $G$ with respect to the area measure, with each $p_n$ having leading coefficient $\lambda_n>0$. N. Stylianopoulos has recently proven that the asymptotic behavior of $\lambda_n$ as $n\to\infty$ is given by \[ \frac{n+1}{\pi}\frac{\gamma^{2n+2}}{ \lambda_n^{2}}=1-\alpha_n, \] where $\alpha_n=O(1/n)$ as $n\to\infty$ and $\gamma$ is the reciprocal of the logarithmic capacity of the boundary $\partial G$. In this paper, we prove that the $O(1/n)$ estimate for the error term $\alpha_n$ is, in general, best possible, by exhibiting an example for which \[ \liminf_{n\to\infty}\,n\alpha_n>0. \] The proof makes use of the Faber polynomials, about which a conjecture is formulated.
We develop normalisation by evaluation (NBE) for dependent types based on presheaf categories. Our construction is formulated in the metalanguage of type theory using quotient inductive types. We use a typed presentation hence there are no preterms or realizers in our construction, and every construction respects the conversion relation. NBE for simple types uses a logical relation between the syntax and the presheaf interpretation. In our construction, we merge the presheaf interpretation and the logical relation into a proof-relevant logical predicate. We prove normalisation, completeness, stability and decidability of definitional equality. Most of the constructions were formalized in Agda.
Contrary to conventional economic growth theory, which reduces a country's output to one aggregate variable (GDP), product diversity is central to economic development, as recent 'economic complexity' research suggests. A country's product diversity reflects its diversity of knowhow or 'capabilities'. Researchers proposed the Economic Complexity Index (ECI) and the country Fitness index to estimate a country's number of capabilities from international export data; these measures predict economic growth better than conventional variables such as human capital. This paper offers a simpler measure of a country's knowhow, Log Product Diversity (or LPD, the logarithm of a country's number of products), which can be derived from a one-parameter combinatorial model of production in which a set of knowhows combine with some probability to turn raw materials into a product. ECI and log-fitness can be interpreted theoretically (using the combinatorial model) and empirically as potentially noisy estimates of LPD; moreover, controlling for natural resources, the simple measure better explains the cross-country differences in GDP and in GDP per capita.
Let the circle act in a Hamiltonian fashion on a compact symplectic manifold $(M, \omega)$ of dimension $2n$. Then the $S^1$-action has at least $n+1$ fixed points. We study the case when the fixed point set consists of precisely $n+1$ isolated points. We first show certain equivalence on the first Chern class of $M$ and some particular weight of the $S^1$-action at some fixed point. Then we show that the particular weight can completely determine the integral cohomology ring of $M$, the total Chern class of $M$, and the sets of weights of the $S^1$-action at all the fixed points. We will see that all these data are isomorphic to those of known examples, $\CP^n$, or $\Gt_2(\R^{n+2})$ with $n\geq 3$ odd, equipped with standard circle actions.
Based on the similarity of paraxial diffraction and dispersion mathematical descriptions, the temporal imaging of optical pulses combines linear dispersive filters and quadratic phase modulations operating as time lenses. We consider programming a dispersive filter near atomic resonance in rare earth ion doped crystals, which leads to unprecedented high values of dispersive power. This filter is used in an approximate imaging scheme, combining a single time lens and a single dispersive section and operating as a time reversing device, with potential applications in radio-frequency signal processing. This scheme is closely related to three-pulse photon echo with chirped pulses but the connection with temporal imaging and dispersive filtering emphasizes new features.
We present an application of multi-mesh finite element methods as part of a methodology for optimizing settlement layouts. By formulating a multi-objective optimization problem, we demonstrate how a given number of buildings may be optimally placed on a given piece of land with respect to both wind conditions and the view experienced from the buildings. The wind flow is modeled by a multi-mesh (cut finite element) method. This allows each building to be embedded in a boundary-fitted mesh which can be moved freely on top of a fixed background mesh. This approach enables a multitude of settlement layouts to be evaluated without the need for costly mesh generation when changing the configuration of buildings. The view is modeled by a measure that takes into account the totality of unobstructed view from the collection of buildings, and is efficiently computed by rasterization.
The main aim of this paper is twofold. First we generalize, in a novel way, most of the known non-vanishing results for the derivatives of the Riemann zeta function by establishing the existence of an infinite sequence of regions in the right half-plane where these derivatives cannot have any zeros; and then, in the rare regions of the complex plane that do contain zeros of the k-th derivative of the zeta function, we describe a unexpected phenomenon, which implies great regularities in their zero distributions. In particular, we prove sharp estimates for the number of zeros in each of these new critical strips, and we explain how they converge, in a very precise, periodic fashion, to their central, critical lines, as k increases. This not only shows that the zeros are not randomly scattered to the right of the line Re(s)=1, but that, in many respects, their two-dimensional distribution eventually becomes much simpler and more predictable than the one-dimensional behavior of the zeros of the zeta function on the line Re(s)=1/2.
The ever-increasing quantity and complexity of scientific production have made it difficult for researchers to keep track of advances in their own fields. This, together with growing popularity of online scientific communities, calls for the development of effective information filtering tools. We propose here a method to simultaneously compute reputation of users and quality of scientific artifacts in an online scientific community. Evaluation on artificially-generated data and real data from the Econophysics Forum is used to determine the method's best-performing variants. We show that when the method is extended by considering author credit, its performance improves on multiple levels. In particular, top papers have higher citation count and top authors have higher $h$-index than top papers and top authors chosen by other algorithms.
The paradox of Wigner's friend challenges the objectivity of description in quantum theory. A pragmatist interpretation can meet this challenge by judicious appeal to decoherence. On this interpretation, quantum theory provides situated agents with resources for predicting and explaining what happens in the physical world---not conscious observations of it. Even in Wigner's friend scenarios, differently situated agents agree on the objective content of statements about the values of physical magnitudes. In more realistic circumstances quantum Darwinism also permits differently situated agents equal observational access to evaluate their truth. In this view, quantum theory has nothing to say about consciousness or conscious experiences of observers. But it does prompt us to reexamine the significance even of everyday claims about the physical world.
A simple method is proposed for inclusion of inelastic effects (electron absorption) in computations of low-energy electron reflectivity (LEER) spectra. The theoretical spectra are formulated by matching of electron wavefunctions obtained from first-principles computations in a repeated vacuum-slab-vacuum geometry. Inelastic effects are included by allowing these states to decay in time in accordance with an imaginary term in the potential of the slab, and by mixing of the slab states in accordance with the same type of distribution as occurs in a free-electron model. LEER spectra are computed for various two-dimensional materials, including free-standing multilayer graphene, graphene on copper substrates, and hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) on cobalt substrates.
We consider an ordinary differential equation with a unique hyperbolic attractor at the origin, to which we add a small random perturbation. It is known that under general conditions, the solution of this stochastic differential equation converges exponentially fast to an equilibrium distribution. We show that the convergence occurs abruptly: in a time window of small size compared to the natural time scale of the process, the distance to equilibrium drops from its maximal possible value to near zero, and only after this time window the convergence is exponentially fast. This is what is known as the cut-off phenomenon in the context of Markov chains of increasing complexity. In addition, we are able to give general conditions to decide whether the distance to equilibrium converges in this time window to a universal function, a fact known as profile cut-off.
Information flow is the branch of security that studies the leakage of information due to correlation between secrets and observables. Since in general such correlation cannot be avoided completely, it is important to quantify the leakage. The most followed approaches to defining appropriate measures are those based on information theory. In particular, one of the most successful approaches is the recently proposed $g$-leakage framework, which encompasses most of the information-theoretic ones. A problem with $g$-leakage, however, is that it is defined in terms of a minimization problem, which, in the case of large systems, can be computationally rather heavy. In this paper we study the case in which the channel associated to the system can be decomposed into simpler channels, which typically happens when the observables consist of multiple components. Our main contribution is the derivation of bounds on the (multiplicative version of) $g$-leakage of the whole system in terms of the $g$-leakages of its components. We also consider the particular cases of min-entropy leakage and of parallel channels, generalizing and systematizing results from the literature. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and evaluate the precision of our bounds using examples.
We consider controller design for robust output tracking and disturbance rejection for continuous-time periodic linear systems with periodic reference and disturbance signals. As our main results we present four different controllers: A feedforward control law and a discrete-time dynamic error feedback controller for output tracking and disturbance rejection, a robust discrete-time feedback controller, and finally a discrete-time feedback controller that achieves approximate robust output tracking and disturbance rejection. The presented constructions are also new for time-invariant finite and infinite-dimensional systems. The results are illustrated with two examples: A periodically time-dependent system of harmonic oscillators and a nonautonomous two-dimensional heat equation with boundary disturbance.
We consider a simple model for QCD dynamics in which DGLAP integro-differential equation may be solved analytically. This is a gauge model which possesses dominant evolution of gauge boson (gluon) distribution and in which the gauge coupling does not run. This may be ${\cal N} =4$ supersymmetric gauge theory with softly broken supersymmetry, other finite supersymmetric gauge theory with lower level of supersymmetry, or topological Chern-Simons field theories. We maintain only one term in the splitting function of unintegrated gluon distribution and solve DGLAP analytically for this simplified splitting function. The solution is found by use of the Cauchy integral formula. The solution restricts form of the unintegrated gluon distribution as function of momentum transfer and of Bjorken $x$. Then we consider an almost realistic splitting function of unintegrated gluon distribution as an input to DGLAP equation and solve it by the same method which we have developed to solve DGLAP equation for the toy-model. We study a result obtained for the realistic gluon distribution and find a singular Bessel-like behaviour in the vicinity of the point $x=0$ and a smooth behaviour in the vicinity of the point
The Standard Model is in good shape, apart possibly from g_\mu - 2 and some niggling doubts about the electroweak data. Something like a Higgs boson is required to provide particle masses, but theorists are actively considering alternatives. The problems of flavour, unification and quantum gravity will require physics beyond the Standard Model, and astrophysics and cosmology also provide reasons to expect physics beyond the Standard Model, in particular to provide the dark matter and explain the origin of the matter in the Universe. Personally, I find supersymmetry to be the most attractive option for new physics at the TeV scale. The LHC should establish the origin of particle masses has good prospects for discovering dark matter, and might also cast light on unification and even quantum gravity. Important roles may also be played by lower-energy experiments, astrophysics and cosmology in the searches for new physics beyond the Standard Model.
We show that one-way quantum one-counter automaton with zero-error is more powerful than its probabilistic counterpart on promise problems. Then, we obtain a similar separation result between Las Vegas one-way probabilistic one-counter automaton and one-way deterministic one-counter automaton. We also obtain new results on classical counter automata regarding language recognition. It was conjectured that one-way probabilistic one blind-counter automata cannot recognize Kleene closure of equality language [A. Yakaryilmaz: Superiority of one-way and realtime quantum machines. RAIRO - Theor. Inf. and Applic. 46(4): 615-641 (2012)]. We show that this conjecture is false, and also show several separation results for blind/non-blind counter automata.
In this paper, we discuss the parametric symmetries in different exactly solvable systems characterized by real or complex P T symmetric potentials. We focus our at- tention on the conventional potentials such as the generalized Poschl Teller (GPT), o Scarf-I and P T symmetric Scarf-II which are invariant under certain parametric transformations. The resulting set of potentials are shown to yield a completely dif- ferent behavior of the bound state solutions. Further the supersymmetric (SUSY) partner potentials acquire different forms under such parametric transformations leading to new sets of exactly solvable real and P T symmetric complex potentials. These potentials are also observed to be shape invariant (SI) in nature. We subse- quently take up a study of the newly discovered rationally extended SI Potentials, corresponding to the above mentioned conventional potentials, whose bound state solutions are associated with the exceptional orthogonal polynomials (EOPs). We discuss the transformations of the corresponding Casimir operator employing the properties of the so(2,1) algebra.
We use a Potts model community detection algorithm to accurately and quantitatively evaluate the hierarchical or multiresolution structure of a graph. Our multiresolution algorithm calculates correlations among multiple copies ("replicas") of the same graph over a range of resolutions. Significant multiresolution structures are identified by strongly correlated replicas. The average normalized mutual information, the variation of information, and other measures in principle give a quantitative estimate of the "best" resolutions and indicate the relative strength of the structures in the graph. Because the method is based on information comparisons, it can in principle be used with any community detection model that can examine multiple resolutions. Our approach may be extended to other optimization problems. As a local measure, our Potts model avoids the "resolution limit" that affects other popular models. With this model, our community detection algorithm has an accuracy that ranks among the best of currently available methods. Using it, we can examine graphs over 40 million nodes and more than one billion edges. We further report that the multiresolution variant of our algorithm can solve systems of at least 200000 nodes and 10 million edges on a single processor with exceptionally high accuracy. For typical cases, we find a super-linear scaling, O(L^{1.3}) for community detection and O(L^{1.3} log N) for the multiresolution algorithm where L is the number of edges and N is the number of nodes in the system.
We apply the methods of transformation optics to theoretical descriptions of spacetimes that support closed null geodesic curves. The metric used is based on frame dragging spacetimes, such as the van Stockum dust or the Kerr black hole. Through transformation optics, this metric is analogous to a material that in theory should allow for communication between past and future. Presented herein is a derivation and description of the spacetime and the resulting permeability, permittivity, and magneto-electric couplings that a material would need in order for light in the material to follow closed null geodesics. We also address the paradoxical implications of such a material, and demonstrate why such a material would not actually result in a violation of causality. A full derivation of the Plebanski equations is also included.
In this paper, we consider charge fluctuations of a Schwarzschild black hole of mass $M$ in thermal equilibrium with a plasma consisting of photons, electrons, and positrons confined inside a cavity . The final result is astonishingly simple: charge fluctuations have two independent contributions: one that comes from the black hole itself, with no respect to the plasma, and another one that arises from the plasma; both are Universal, do not depend on the black hole mass and none of them depends on the charge of the charge carriers. They differ by a numerical factor of order one if we assume the cut-off parameter to be Planckian. Therefore, we regard them as physically identical. Interestingly enough, the black hole's charge (squared) fluctuations are of the order $\hbar$ which is not too far from the fine structure constant. The physical origin of charge fluctuations remains raises a puzzle. Since it does not depend upon the charge of the charge carriers, it cannot be regarded as resulting from the trade of charges between the black hole and the quantum fields and is truly of quantum gravity nature (albeit in a semi-classical approximation). There are at least two possible ways of interpreting our results: either charge is trapped inside the black hole and the average must be regarded over an ensemble of black-holes or eventuality charge fluctuations arise from particles crossing the Cauchy horizon $\overline{r_-} \sim \hbar/2M$ in both directions.
Higher order differentiation was introduced in a cryptographic context by Lai. Several attacks can be viewed in the context of higher order differentiations, amongst them the cube attack and the AIDA attack. All of the above have been developed for the binary case. We examine differentiation in larger fields, starting with the field $GF(p)$ of integers modulo a prime $p$. We prove a number of results on differentiating polynomials over such fields and then apply these techniques to generalising the cube attack to $GF(p)$. The crucial difference is that now the degree in each variable can be higher than one, and our proposed attack will differentiate several times with respect to each variable (unlike the classical cube attack and its larger field version described by Dinur and Shamir, both of which differentiate at most once with respect to each variable). Finally we describe differentiation over finite fields $GF(p^m)$ with $p^m$ elements and prove that it can be reduced to differentiation over $GF(p)$, so a cube attack over $GF(p^m)$ would be equivalent to cube attacks over $GF(p)$.
We propose a single chain slip-spring model, which is based on the slip-spring model by Likhtman [A. E. Likhtman, Macromolecules, 38, 6128 (2005)], for fast rheology simulations of entangled polymers on a GPU. We modify the original slip-spring model slightly for efficient calculations on a GPU. Our model is designed to satisfy the detailed balance condition, which enables us to analyze its static or linear response properties easily. We theoretically analyze several statistical properties of the model, such as the linear response, which will be useful to analyze simulation data. We show that our model can reproduce several rheological properties such as the linear viscoelasticity or the viscosity growth qualitatively. We also show that the use of a GPU can improve the performance drastically.
In the present paper we continue the project of systematic construction of invariant differential operators on the example of the non-compact exceptional algebra $E_{7(-25)}$. Our choice of this particular algebra is motivated by the fact that it belongs to a narrow class of algebras, which we call 'conformal Lie algebras', which have very similar properties to the conformal algebras of $n$-dimensional Minkowski space-time. This class of algebras is identified and summarized in a table. Another motivation is related to the AdS/CFT correspondence. We give the multiplets of indecomposable elementary representations, including the necessary data for all relevant invariant differential operators.
STECKMAP stands for STEllar Content and Kinematics via Maximum A Posteriori likelihood. It is a tool for interpreting galaxy spectra in terms of their stellar populations, through the derivation of their star formation history, age-metallicity relation, kinematics and extinction. To do so, the observed spectrum is projected onto a temporal sequence of models of single stellar populations, so as to determine a linear combination of these models, that fit the observed spectrum best. The weights of the various components of this linear combination indicate the stellar content of the population. This procedure is regularized using various penalizing functions. The principles of the method are detailed in Ocvirk et al. 2006a,b. The STECKMAP software package is public and freely available at https://github.com/pocvirk/STECKMAP. A number of authors have already adopted it and use it in their daily research. This user guide aims at accompanying the user through the setup and first runs of STECKMAP. The last chapter will help the user to understand and improve his results and experience with the code.
We report the design and implementation of a complete electronics platform for conducting a quantum optics experiment that will be operated on board a 1U CubeSat (a 10 x 10 x 10 cm satellite). The quantum optics experiment is designed to produce polarization-entangled photon pairs using non-linear optical crystals and requires opto-electronic components such as a pump laser, single photon detectors and liquid crystal based polarization rotators in addition to passive optical elements. The platform provides mechanical support for the optical assembly. It also communicates autonomously with the host satellite to provide experiment data for transmission to a ground station. A limited number of commands can be transmitted from ground to the platform enabling it to switch experimental modes. This platform requires less than 1.5W for all operations, and is space qualified. The implementation of this electronics platform is a major step on the road to operating quantum communication experiments using nanosatellites.
The article considers a way to compare large bulks of experimental data with theoretical calculations, in which the quality of theoretical models is clearly demonstrated graphically. The main idea of the method consists in grouping physical observables, represented by experiment and theoretical calculation, into samples, each of which characterizes a certain physical process. A further choice of a convenient criterion for comparing measurements and calculations, its calculation and averaging within each sample and then over all samples, makes it possible to choose the best theoretical model in the entire measurement area. Published theoretical data of the three-fluid dynamic model (3FD) applied to the experimental data from heavy-ion collisions at the energy range $\sqrt{s_{NN}}\,=\,2.7 - 63$ GeV are used as example of application of the developed methodology. When analyzing the results, the quantum nature of the fireball, created at heavy ion collisions, was taken into account. Thus, even at energy $\sqrt{s_{NN}}\,=\,63$ GeV of central collisions of heavy ions, there is a nonzero probability of fireball formation without ignition of the quark-gluon plasma (QGP). At the same time, QGP ignition at central collision energies above at least $\sqrt{s_{NN}}\,=\,12 GeV occurs through two competing processes, through a first-order phase transition and through a smooth crossover. That is, in nature, these two possibilities are realized, which occur with approximately the same probabilities.
In this paper, we review and substantially develop the recently proposed "Microscopic Response Method", which has been devised to compute transport coefficients and especially associated temperature dependence in complex materials. The conductivity and Hall mobility of amorphous semiconductors and semiconducting polymers are systematically derived, and shown to be more practical than the Kubo formalism. The effect of a quantized lattice (phonons) on transport coefficients is fully included and then integrated out, providing the primary temperature dependence for the transport coefficients. For higher-order processes, using a diagrammatic expansion, one can consistently include all important contributions to a given order and directly write out the expressions of transport coefficients for various processes.
Using the notion of formal ball, we present a few new results in the theory of quasi-metric spaces. With no specific order: every continuous Yoneda-complete quasi-metric space is sober and convergence Choquet-complete hence Baire in its $d$-Scott topology; for standard quasi-metric spaces, algebraicity is equivalent to having enough center points; on a standard quasi-metric space, every lower semicontinuous $\bar{\mathbb{R}}_+$-valued function is the supremum of a chain of Lipschitz Yoneda-continuous maps; the continuous Yoneda-complete quasi-metric spaces are exactly the retracts of algebraic Yoneda-complete quasi-metric spaces; every continuous Yoneda-complete quasi-metric space has a so-called quasi-ideal model, generalizing a construction due to K. Martin. The point is that all those results reduce to domain-theoretic constructions on posets of formal balls.
We study integrated characteristics of ~14000 low-redshift (0<z<1) compact star-forming galaxies (SFGs) selected from the Data Release 12 of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. It is found that emission of these galaxies is dominated by strong young bursts of star formation, implying that their luminosities experience rapid variations on a time scale of a few Myr. Reducing integrated characteristics of these galaxies to zero burst age would result in a considerably tighter and almost linear relation between stellar mass and star formation rate (SFR). The same correction implies that the specific star formation rate (the ratio of SFR and stellar mass) is not dependent on the galaxy stellar mass. We conclude that the correction for rapid luminosity evolution must be taken into account in a similar way when comparing different samples of low- and high-redshift SFGs. If the bursting nature of star formation and young burst ages are characteristics of the galaxies selected at high redshifts, the age correction of observed SFRs derived from the Hbeta emission line or UV continua would modify the derived SFR densities in the early universe.
We study the structure of multiple correlation sequences defined by measure preserving actions of commuting transformations. When the iterates of the transformations are integer polynomials we prove that any such correlation sequence is the sum of a nilsequence and an error term that is small in uniform density; this was previously known only for measure preserving actions of a single transformation. We then use this decomposition result to give convergence criteria for multiple ergodic averages involving iterates that grow linearly, and prove the rather surprising fact that for such sequences, convergence results for actions of commuting transformations follow automatically from the special case of actions of a single transformation. Our proof of the decomposition result differs from previous works of V. Bergelson, B. Host, B. Kra, and A. Leibman, as it does not rely on the theory of characteristic factors. It consists of a simple orthogonality argument and the main tool is an inverse theorem of B. Host and B. Kra for general bounded sequences.
Let $X$ be a $2n$-manifold with a locally standard action of a compact torus $T^n$. If the free part of action is trivial and proper faces of the orbit space $Q$ are acyclic, then there are three types of homology classes in $X$: (1) classes of face submanifolds; (2) $k$-dimensional classes of $Q$ swept by actions of subtori of dimensions $<k$; (3) relative $k$-classes of $Q$ modulo $\partial Q$ swept by actions of subtori of dimensions $\geqslant k$. The submodule of $H_*(X)$ spanned by face classes is an ideal in $H_*(X)$ with respect to the intersection product. It is isomorphic to $(\mathbb{Z}[S_Q]/\Theta)/W$, where $\mathbb{Z}[S_Q]$ is the face ring of the Buchsbaum simplicial poset $S_Q$ dual to $Q$; $\Theta$ is the linear system of parameters determined by the characteristic function; and $W$ is a certain submodule, lying in the socle of $\mathbb{Z}[S_Q]/\Theta$. Intersections of homology classes different from face submanifolds are described in terms of intersections on $Q$ and $T^n$.
The paper contains a short review of techniques examining regional wealth inequalities based on recently published research work but is also presenting unpublished features. The data pertains to Italy (IT), over the period 2007-2011: the number of cities in regions, the number of inhabitants in cities and in regions, as well as the aggregated tax income of the cities and of regions. Frequency-size plots and cumulative distribution function plots, scatter plots and rank-size plots are displayed. The rank-size rule of a few cases is discussed. Yearly data of the aggregated tax income is transformed into a few indicators: the Gini, Theil, and Herfindahl-Hirschman indices. Numerical results confirm that IT is divided into very different regional realities. One region is selected for a short discussion: Molise. A note on the "first digit Benford law" for testing data validity is presented.
This report offers a modern perspective on the question of time directionality as it arises in a classical and quantum-mechanical context, based on key developments in the field of gravitational physics. Important clarifications are achieved regarding, in particular, the concepts of time reversal, negative energy, and time-symmetric causality. From this analysis emerges an improved understanding of the general-relativistic concept of stress-energy of matter as being a manifestation of local variations in the energy density of zero-point vacuum fluctuations. Based on those developments, a set of axioms is proposed from which are derived generalized gravitational field equations which actually constitute a simplification of relativity theory in the presence of negative-energy matter and a non-zero cosmological constant. Those results are then applied to provide original solutions to several long-standing problems in cosmology, including the problem of the nature of dark matter and dark energy, that of the origin of thermodynamic time asymmetry, and several other issues traditionally approached using inflation theory. Finally, we draw on those developments to provide significant new insights into the foundations of quantum theory, regarding, in particular, the problem of quantum non-locality, that of the emergence of time in quantum cosmology, as well as the question of the persistence of quasiclassicality following decoherence.
We present and analyze a pollution-free Petrov-Galerkin multiscale finite element method for the Helmholtz problem with large wave number $\kappa$ as a variant of [Peterseim, ArXiv:1411.1944, 2014]. We use standard continuous $Q_1$ finite elements at a coarse discretization scale $H$ as trial functions, whereas the test functions are computed as the solutions of local problems at a finer scale $h$. The diameter of the support of the test functions behaves like $mH$ for some oversampling parameter $m$. Provided $m$ is of the order of $\log(\kappa)$ and $h$ is sufficiently small, the resulting method is stable and quasi-optimal in the regime where $H$ is proportional to $\kappa^{-1}$. In homogeneous (or more general periodic) media, the fine scale test functions depend only on local mesh-configurations. Therefore, the seemingly high cost for the computation of the test functions can be drastically reduced on structured meshes. We present numerical experiments in two and three space dimensions.
This paper proposes the first known to us iris recognition methodology designed specifically for post-mortem samples. We propose to use deep learning-based iris segmentation models to extract highly irregular iris texture areas in post-mortem iris images. We show how to use segmentation masks predicted by neural networks in conventional, Gabor-based iris recognition method, which employs circular approximations of the pupillary and limbic iris boundaries. As a whole, this method allows for a significant improvement in post-mortem iris recognition accuracy over the methods designed only for ante-mortem irises, including the academic OSIRIS and commercial IriCore implementations. The proposed method reaches the EER less than 1% for samples collected up to 10 hours after death, when compared to 16.89% and 5.37% of EER observed for OSIRIS and IriCore, respectively. For samples collected up to 369 hours post-mortem, the proposed method achieves the EER 21.45%, while 33.59% and 25.38% are observed for OSIRIS and IriCore, respectively. Additionally, the method is tested on a database of iris images collected from ophthalmology clinic patients, for which it also offers an advantage over the two other algorithms. This work is the first step towards post-mortem-specific iris recognition, which increases the chances of identification of deceased subjects in forensic investigations. The new database of post-mortem iris images acquired from 42 subjects, as well as the deep learning-based segmentation models are made available along with the paper, to ensure all the results presented in this manuscript are reproducible.
While accelerators such as GPUs have limited memory, deep neural networks are becoming larger and will not fit with the memory limitation of accelerators for training. We propose an approach to tackle this problem by rewriting the computational graph of a neural network, in which swap-out and swap-in operations are inserted to temporarily store intermediate results on CPU memory. In particular, we first revise the concept of a computational graph by defining a concrete semantics for variables in a graph. We then formally show how to derive swap-out and swap-in operations from an existing graph and present rules to optimize the graph. To realize our approach, we developed a module in TensorFlow, named TFLMS. TFLMS is published as a pull request in the TensorFlow repository for contributing to the TensorFlow community. With TFLMS, we were able to train ResNet-50 and 3DUnet with 4.7x and 2x larger batch size, respectively. In particular, we were able to train 3DUNet using images of size of $192^3$ for image segmentation, which, without TFLMS, had been done only by dividing the images to smaller images, which affects the accuracy.
Prognostic tumor growth modeling via volumetric medical imaging observations can potentially lead to better outcomes of tumor treatment and surgical planning. Recent advances of convolutional networks have demonstrated higher accuracy than traditional mathematical models in predicting future tumor volumes. This indicates that deep learning-based techniques may have great potentials on addressing such problem. However, current 2D patch-based modeling approaches cannot make full use of the spatio-temporal imaging context of the tumor's longitudinal 4D (3D + time) data. Moreover, they are incapable to predict clinically-relevant tumor properties, other than volumes. In this paper, we exploit to formulate the tumor growth process through convolutional Long Short-Term Memory (ConvLSTM) that extract tumor's static imaging appearances and capture its temporal dynamic changes within a single network. We extend ConvLSTM into the spatio-temporal domain (ST-ConvLSTM) by jointly learning the inter-slice 3D contexts and the longitudinal or temporal dynamics from multiple patient studies. Our approach can incorporate other non-imaging patient information in an end-to-end trainable manner. Experiments are conducted on the largest 4D longitudinal tumor dataset of 33 patients to date. Results validate that the ST-ConvLSTM produces a Dice score of 83.2%+-5.1% and a RVD of 11.2%+-10.8%, both significantly outperforming (p<0.05) other compared methods of linear model, ConvLSTM, and generative adversarial network (GAN) under the metric of predicting future tumor volumes. Additionally, our new method enables the prediction of both cell density and CT intensity numbers. Last, we demonstrate the generalizability of ST-ConvLSTM by employing it in 4D medical image segmentation task, which achieves an averaged
In real-world practice, medical images acquired in different phases possess complementary information, {\em e.g.}, radiologists often refer to both arterial and venous scans in order to make the diagnosis. However, in medical image analysis, fusing prediction from two phases is often difficult, because (i) there is a domain gap between two phases, and (ii) the semantic labels are not pixel-wise corresponded even for images scanned from the same patient. This paper studies organ segmentation in two-phase CT scans. We propose Phase Collaborative Network (PCN), an end-to-end framework that contains both generative and discriminative modules. PCN can be mathematically explained to formulate phase-to-phase and data-to-label relations jointly. Experiments are performed on a two-phase CT dataset, on which PCN outperforms the baselines working with one-phase data by a large margin, and we empirically verify that the gain comes from inter-phase collaboration. Besides, PCN transfers well to two public single-phase datasets, demonstrating its potential applications.
Image segmentation as a clustering problem is to identify pixel groups on an image without any preliminary labels available. It remains a challenge in machine vision because of the variations in size and shape of image segments. Furthermore, determining the segment number in an image is NP-hard without prior knowledge of the image content. This paper presents an automatic color image pixel clustering scheme based on mussels wandering optimization. By applying an activation variable to determine the number of clusters along with the cluster centers optimization, an image is segmented with minimal prior knowledge and human intervention. By revising the within- and between-class sum of squares ratio for random natural image contents, we provide a novel fitness function for image pixel clustering tasks. Comprehensive empirical studies of the proposed scheme against other state-of-the-art competitors on synthetic data and the ASD dataset have demonstrated the promising performance of the proposed scheme.
In this paper, we propose a Customizable Architecture Search (CAS) approach to automatically generate a network architecture for semantic image segmentation. The generated network consists of a sequence of stacked computation cells. A computation cell is represented as a directed acyclic graph, in which each node is a hidden representation (i.e., feature map) and each edge is associated with an operation (e.g., convolution and pooling), which transforms data to a new layer. During the training, the CAS algorithm explores the search space for an optimized computation cell to build a network. The cells of the same type share one architecture but with different weights. In real applications, however, an optimization may need to be conducted under some constraints such as GPU time and model size. To this end, a cost corresponding to the constraint will be assigned to each operation. When an operation is selected during the search, its associated cost will be added to the objective. As a result, our CAS is able to search an optimized architecture with customized constraints. The approach has been thoroughly evaluated on Cityscapes and CamVid datasets, and demonstrates superior performance over several state-of-the-art techniques. More remarkably, our CAS achieves 72.3% mIoU on the Cityscapes dataset with speed of 108 FPS on an Nvidia TitanXp GPU.
The performance of the state-of-the-art image segmentation methods heavily relies on the high-quality annotations, which are not easily affordable, particularly for medical data. To alleviate this limitation, in this study, we propose a weakly supervised image segmentation method based on a deep geodesic prior. We hypothesize that integration of this prior information can reduce the adverse effects of weak labels in segmentation accuracy. Our proposed algorithm is based on a prior information, extracted from an auto-encoder, trained to map objects geodesic maps to their corresponding binary maps. The obtained information is then used as an extra term in the loss function of the segmentor. In order to show efficacy of the proposed strategy, we have experimented segmentation of cardiac substructures with clean and two levels of noisy labels (L1, L2). Our experiments showed that the proposed algorithm boosted the performance of baseline deep learning-based segmentation for both clean and noisy labels by 4.4%, 4.6%(L1), and 6.3%(L2) in dice score, respectively. We also showed that the proposed method was more robust in the presence of high-level noise due to the existence of shape priors.
Parsing sketches via semantic segmentation is attractive but challenging, because (i) free-hand drawings are abstract with large variances in depicting objects due to different drawing styles and skills; (ii) distorting lines drawn on the touchpad make sketches more difficult to be recognized; (iii) the high-performance image segmentation via deep learning technologies needs enormous annotated sketch datasets during the training stage. In this paper, we propose a Sketch-target deep FCN Segmentation Network(SFSegNet) for automatic free-hand sketch segmentation, labeling each sketch in a single object with multiple parts. SFSegNet has an end-to-end network process between the input sketches and the segmentation results, composed of 2 parts: (i) a modified deep Fully Convolutional Network(FCN) using a reweighting strategy to ignore background pixels and classify which part each pixel belongs to; (ii) affine transform encoders that attempt to canonicalize the shaking strokes. We train our network with the dataset that consists of 10,000 annotated sketches, to find an extensively applicable model to segment stokes semantically in one ground truth. Extensive experiments are carried out and segmentation results show that our method outperforms other state-of-the-art networks.
India is an agriculture-dependent country. As we all know that farming is the backbone of our country it is our responsibility to preserve the crops. However, we cannot stop the destruction of crops by natural calamities at least we have to try to protect our crops from diseases. To, detect a plant disease we need a fast automatic way. So, this paper presents a model to identify the particular disease of plant leaves at early stages so that we can prevent or take a remedy to stop spreading of the disease. This proposed model is made into five sessions. Image preprocessing includes the enhancement of the low light image done using inception modules in CNN. Low-resolution image enhancement is done using an Adversarial Neural Network. This also includes Conversion of RGB Image to YCrCb color space. Next, this paper presents a methodology for image segmentation which is an important aspect for identifying the disease symptoms. This segmentation is done using the genetic algorithm. Due to this process the segmentation of the leaf Image this helps in detection of the leaf mage automatically and classifying. Texture extraction is done using the statistical model called GLCM and finally, the classification of the diseases is done using the SVM using Different Kernels with the high accuracy.
Separating and labeling each instance of a nucleus (instance-aware segmentation) is the key challenge in segmenting single cell nuclei on fluorescence microscopy images. Deep Neural Networks can learn the implicit transformation of a nuclear image into a probability map indicating the class membership of each pixel (nucleus or background), but the use of post-processing steps to turn the probability map into a labeled object mask is error-prone. This especially accounts for nuclear images of tissue sections and nuclear images across varying tissue preparations. In this work, we aim to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art deep learning architectures to segment nuclei in fluorescence images of various tissue origins and sample preparation types without post-processing. We compare architectures that operate on pixel to pixel translation and an architecture that operates on object detection and subsequent locally applied segmentation. In addition, we propose a novel strategy to create artificial images to extend the training set. We evaluate the influence of ground truth annotation quality, image scale and segmentation complexity on segmentation performance. Results show that three out of four deep learning architectures (U-Net, U-Net with ResNet34 backbone, Mask R-CNN) can segment fluorescent nuclear images on most of the sample preparation types and tissue origins with satisfactory segmentation performance. Mask R-CNN, an architecture designed to address instance aware segmentation tasks, outperforms other architectures. Equal nuclear mean size, consistent nuclear annotations and the use of artificially generated images result in overall acceptable precision and recall across different tissues and sample preparation types.
Accurate segmentation of the optic disc (OD) and cup (OC)in fundus images from different datasets is critical for glaucoma disease screening. The cross-domain discrepancy (domain shift) hinders the generalization of deep neural networks to work on different domain datasets.In this work, we present an unsupervised domain adaptation framework,called Boundary and Entropy-driven Adversarial Learning (BEAL), to improve the OD and OC segmentation performance, especially on the ambiguous boundary regions. In particular, our proposed BEAL frame-work utilizes the adversarial learning to encourage the boundary prediction and mask probability entropy map (uncertainty map) of the target domain to be similar to the source ones, generating more accurate boundaries and suppressing the high uncertainty predictions of OD and OC segmentation. We evaluate the proposed BEAL framework on two public retinal fundus image datasets (Drishti-GS and RIM-ONE-r3), and the experiment results demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art unsupervised domain adaptation methods. Codes will be available at https://github.com/EmmaW8/BEAL.
This work addresses the task of open world semantic segmentation using RGBD sensing to discover new semantic classes over time. Although there are many types of objects in the real-word, current semantic segmentation methods make a closed world assumption and are trained only to segment a limited number of object classes. Towards a more open world approach, we propose a novel method that incrementally learns new classes for image segmentation. The proposed system first segments each RGBD frame using both color and geometric information, and then aggregates that information to build a single segmented dense 3D map of the environment. The segmented 3D map representation is a key component of our approach as it is used to discover new object classes by identifying coherent regions in the 3D map that have no semantic label. The use of coherent region in the 3D map as a primitive element, rather than traditional elements such as surfels or voxels, also significantly reduces the computational complexity and memory use of our method. It thus leads to semi-real-time performance at {10.7}Hz when incrementally updating the dense 3D map at every frame. Through experiments on the NYUDv2 dataset, we demonstrate that the proposed method is able to correctly cluster objects of both known and unseen classes. We also show the quantitative comparison with the state-of-the-art supervised methods, the processing time of each step, and the influences of each component.
Semantic Segmentation is an important module for autonomous robots such as self-driving cars. The advantage of video segmentation approaches compared to single image segmentation is that temporal image information is considered, and their performance increases due to this. Hence, single image segmentation approaches are extended by recurrent units such as convolutional LSTM (convLSTM) cells, which are placed at suitable positions in the basic network architecture. However, a major critique of video segmentation approaches based on recurrent neural networks is their large parameter count and their computational complexity, and so, their inference time of one video frame takes up to 66 percent longer than their basic version. Inspired by the success of the spatial and depthwise separable convolutional neural networks, we generalize these techniques for convLSTMs in this work, so that the number of parameters and the required FLOPs are reduced significantly. Experiments on different datasets show that the segmentation approaches using the proposed, modified convLSTM cells achieve similar or slightly worse accuracy, but are up to 15 percent faster on a GPU than the ones using the standard convLSTM cells. Furthermore, a new evaluation metric is introduced, which measures the amount of flickering pixels in the segmented video sequence.
Deep neural networks have achieved tremendous success in various fields including medical image segmentation. However, they have long been criticized for being a black-box, in that interpretation, understanding and correcting architectures is difficult as there is no general theory for deep neural network design. Previously, precision learning was proposed to fuse deep architectures and traditional approaches. Deep networks constructed in this way benefit from the original known operator, have fewer parameters, and improved interpretability. However, they do not yield state-of-the-art performance in all applications. In this paper, we propose to analyze deep networks using known operators, by adopting a divide-and-conquer strategy to replace network components, whilst retaining its performance. The task of retinal vessel segmentation is investigated for this purpose. We start with a high-performance U-Net and show by step-by-step conversion that we are able to divide the network into modules of known operators. The results indicate that a combination of a trainable guided filter and a trainable version of the Frangi filter yields a performance at the level of U-Net (AUC 0.974 vs. 0.972) with a tremendous reduction in parameters (111,536 vs. 9,575). In addition, the trained layers can be mapped back into their original algorithmic interpretation and analyzed using standard tools of signal processing.
Semantic segmentation is a crucial task in biomedical image processing, which recent breakthroughs in deep learning have allowed to improve. However, deep learning methods in general are not yet widely used in practice since they require large amount of data for training complex models. This is particularly challenging for biomedical images, because data and ground truths are a scarce resource. Annotation efforts for biomedical images come with a real cost, since experts have to manually label images at pixel-level on samples usually containing many instances of the target anatomy (e.g. in histology samples: neurons, astrocytes, mitochondria, etc.). In this paper we provide a framework for Deep Active Learning applied to a real-world scenario. Our framework relies on the U-Net architecture and overall uncertainty measure to suggest which sample to annotate. It takes advantage of the uncertainty measure obtained by taking Monte Carlo samples while using Dropout regularization scheme. Experiments were done on spinal cord and brain microscopic histology samples to perform a myelin segmentation task. Two realistic small datasets of 14 and 24 images were used, from different acquisition settings (Serial Block-Face Electron Microscopy and Transmitting Electron Microscopy) and showed that our method reached a maximum Dice value after adding 3 uncertainty-selected samples to the initial training set, versus 15 randomly-selected samples, thereby significantly reducing the annotation effort. We focused on a plausible scenario and showed evidence that this straightforward implementation achieves a high segmentation performance with very few labelled samples. We believe our framework may benefit any biomedical researcher
Advances in the image-based diagnostics of complex biological and manufacturing processes have brought unsupervised image segmentation to the forefront of enabling automated, on the fly decision making. However, most existing unsupervised segmentation approaches are either computationally complex or require manual parameter selection (e.g., flow capacities in max-flow/min-cut segmentation). In this work, we present a fully unsupervised segmentation approach using a continuous max-flow formulation over the image domain while optimally estimating the flow parameters from the image characteristics. More specifically, we show that the maximum a posteriori estimate of the image labels can be formulated as a continuous max-flow problem given the flow capacities are known. The flow capacities are then iteratively obtained by employing a novel Markov random field prior over the image domain. We present theoretical results to establish the posterior consistency of the flow capacities. We compare the performance of our approach on two real-world case studies including brain tumor image segmentation and defect identification in additively manufactured components using electron microscopic images. Comparative results with several state-of-the-art supervised as well as unsupervised methods suggest that the present method performs statistically similar to the supervised methods, but results in more than 90% improvement in the Dice score when compared to the state-of-the-art unsupervised methods.
One of the key drawbacks of 3D convolutional neural networks for segmentation is their memory footprint, which necessitates compromises in the network architecture in order to fit into a given memory budget. Motivated by the RevNet for image classification, we propose a partially reversible U-Net architecture that reduces memory consumption substantially. The reversible architecture allows us to exactly recover each layer's outputs from the subsequent layer's ones, eliminating the need to store activations for backpropagation. This alleviates the biggest memory bottleneck and enables very deep (theoretically infinitely deep) 3D architectures. On the BraTS challenge dataset, we demonstrate substantial memory savings. We further show that the freed memory can be used for processing the whole field-of-view (FOV) instead of patches. Increasing network depth led to higher segmentation accuracy while growing the memory footprint only by a very small fraction, thanks to the partially reversible architecture.
Recent advances in deep learning for medical image segmentation demonstrate expert-level accuracy. However, in clinically realistic environments, such methods have marginal performance due to differences in image domains, including different imaging protocols, device vendors and patient populations. Here we consider the problem of domain generalization, when a model is trained once, and its performance generalizes to unseen domains. Intuitively, within a specific medical imaging modality the domain differences are smaller relative to natural images domain variability. We rethink data augmentation for medical 3D images and propose a deep stacked transformations (DST) approach for domain generalization. Specifically, a series of n stacked transformations are applied to each image in each mini-batch during network training to account for the contribution of domain-specific shifts in medical images. We comprehensively evaluate our method on three tasks: segmentation of whole prostate from 3D MRI, left atrial from 3D MRI, and left ventricle from 3D ultrasound. We demonstrate that when trained on a small source dataset, (i) on average, DST models on unseen datasets degrade only by 11% (Dice score change), compared to the conventional augmentation (degrading 39%) and CycleGAN-based domain adaptation method (degrading 25%); (ii) when evaluation on the same domain, DST is also better albeit only marginally. (iii) When training on large-sized data, DST on unseen domains reaches performance of state-of-the-art fully supervised models. These findings establish a strong benchmark for the study of domain generalization in medical imaging, and can be generalized to the design of robust deep segmentation models for clinical deployment.
Deep learning (DL) approaches are state-of-the-art for many medical image segmentation tasks. They offer a number of advantages: they can be trained for specific tasks, computations are fast at test time, and segmentation quality is typically high. In contrast, previously popular multi-atlas segmentation (MAS) methods are relatively slow (as they rely on costly registrations) and even though sophisticated label fusion strategies have been proposed, DL approaches generally outperform MAS. In this work, we propose a DL-based label fusion strategy (VoteNet) which locally selects a set of reliable atlases whose labels are then fused via plurality voting. Experiments on 3D brain MRI data show that by selecting a good initial atlas set MAS with VoteNet significantly outperforms a number of other label fusion strategies as well as a direct DL segmentation approach. We also provide an experimental analysis of the upper performance bound achievable by our method. While unlikely achievable in practice, this bound suggests room for further performance improvements. Lastly, to address the runtime disadvantage of standard MAS, all our results make use of a fast DL registration approach.
Automated design of neural network architectures tailored for a specific task is an extremely promising, albeit inherently difficult, avenue to explore. While most results in this domain have been achieved on image classification and language modelling problems, here we concentrate on dense per-pixel tasks, in particular, semantic image segmentation using fully convolutional networks. In contrast to the aforementioned areas, the design choices of a fully convolutional network require several changes, ranging from the sort of operations that need to be used---e.g., dilated convolutions---to a solving of a more difficult optimisation problem. In this work, we are particularly interested in searching for high-performance compact segmentation architectures, able to run in real-time using limited resources. To achieve that, we intentionally over-parameterise the architecture during the training time via a set of auxiliary cells that provide an intermediate supervisory signal and can be omitted during the evaluation phase. The design of the auxiliary cell is emitted by a controller, a neural network with the fixed structure trained using reinforcement learning. More crucially, we demonstrate how to efficiently search for these architectures within limited time and computational budgets. In particular, we rely on a progressive strategy that terminates non-promising architectures from being further trained, and on Polyak averaging coupled with knowledge distillation to speed-up the convergence. Quantitatively, in 8 GPU-days our approach discovers a set of architectures performing on-par with state-of-the-art among compact models on the semantic segmentation, pose estimation and depth prediction tasks. Code will be made available here: https://github.com/drsleep/nas-segm-pytorch
This paper proposes the first, known to us, open source presentation attack detection (PAD) solution to distinguish between authentic iris images (possibly wearing clear contact lenses) and irises with textured contact lenses. This software can serve as a baseline in various PAD evaluations, and also as an open-source platform with an up-to-date reference method for iris PAD. The software is written in C++ and Python and uses only open source resources, such as OpenCV. This method does not incorporate iris image segmentation, which may be problematic for unknown fake samples. Instead, it makes a best guess to localize the rough position of the iris. The PAD-related features are extracted with the Binary Statistical Image Features (BSIF), which are classified by an ensemble of classifiers incorporating support vector machine, random forest and multilayer perceptron. The models attached to the current software have been trained with the NDCLD'15 database and evaluated on the independent datasets included in the LivDet-Iris 2017 competition. The software implements the functionality of retraining the classifiers with any database of authentic and attack images. The accuracy of the current version offered with this paper exceeds 99% when tested on subject-disjoint subsets of NDCLD'15, and oscillates around 85% when tested on the LivDet-Iris 2017 benchmarks, which is on par with the results obtained by the LivDet-Iris 2017 winner.
It is important to find the target as soon as possible for search and rescue operations. Surveillance camera systems and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are used to support search and rescue. Automatic object detection is important because a person cannot monitor multiple surveillance screens simultaneously for 24 hours. Also, the object is often too small to be recognized by the human eye on the surveillance screen. This study used UAVs around the Port of Houston and fixed surveillance cameras to build an automatic target detection system that supports the US Coast Guard (USCG) to help find targets (e.g., person overboard). We combined image segmentation, enhancement, and convolution neural networks to reduce detection time to detect small targets. We compared the performance between the auto-detection system and the human eye. Our system detected the target within 8 seconds, but the human eye detected the target within 25 seconds. Our systems also used synthetic data generation and data augmentation techniques to improve target detection accuracy. This solution may help the search and rescue operations of the first responders in a timely manner.
In order to create an image segmentation method robust to lighting changes, two novel homogeneity criteria of an image region were studied. Both were defined using the Logarithmic Image Processing (LIP) framework whose laws model lighting changes. The first criterion estimates the LIP-additive homogeneity and is based on the LIP-additive law. It is theoretically insensitive to lighting changes caused by variations of the camera exposure-time or source intensity. The second, the LIP-multiplicative homogeneity criterion, is based on the LIP-multiplicative law and is insensitive to changes due to variations of the object thickness or opacity. Each criterion is then applied in Revol and Jourlin's (1997) region growing method which is based on the homogeneity of an image region. The region growing method becomes therefore robust to the lighting changes specific to each criterion. Experiments on simulated and on real images presenting lighting variations prove the robustness of the criteria to those variations. Compared to a state-of the art method based on the image component-tree, ours is more robust. These results open the way to numerous applications where the lighting is uncontrolled or partially controlled.
Binary segmentation of volumetric images of porous media is a crucial step towards gaining a deeper understanding of the factors governing biogeochemical processes at minute scales. Contemporary work primarily revolves around primitive techniques based on global or local adaptive thresholding that have known common drawbacks in image segmentation. Moreover, absence of a unified benchmark prohibits quantitative evaluation, which further clouds the impact of existing methodologies. In this study, we tackle the issue on both fronts. Firstly, by drawing parallels with natural image segmentation, we propose a novel, and automatic segmentation technique, 3D Quantum Cuts (QCuts-3D) grounded on a state-of-the-art spectral clustering technique. Secondly, we curate and present a publicly available dataset of 68 multiphase volumetric images of porous media with diverse solid geometries, along with voxel-wise ground truth annotations for each constituting phase. We provide comparative evaluations between QCuts-3D and the current state-of-the-art over this dataset across a variety of evaluation metrics. The proposed systematic approach achieves a 26% increase in AUROC while achieving a substantial reduction of the computational complexity of the state-of-the-art competitors. Moreover, statistical analysis reveals that the proposed method exhibits significant robustness against the compositional variations of porous media.
Image segmentation is an important task in many medical applications. Methods based on convolutional neural networks attain state-of-the-art accuracy; however, they typically rely on supervised training with large labeled datasets. Labeling medical images requires significant expertise and time, and typical hand-tuned approaches for data augmentation fail to capture the complex variations in such images. We present an automated data augmentation method for synthesizing labeled medical images. We demonstrate our method on the task of segmenting magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans. Our method requires only a single segmented scan, and leverages other unlabeled scans in a semi-supervised approach. We learn a model of transformations from the images, and use the model along with the labeled example to synthesize additional labeled examples. Each transformation is comprised of a spatial deformation field and an intensity change, enabling the synthesis of complex effects such as variations in anatomy and image acquisition procedures. We show that training a supervised segmenter with these new examples provides significant improvements over state-of-the-art methods for one-shot biomedical image segmentation. Our code is available at https://github.com/xamyzhao/brainstorm.
In applications of supervised learning applied to medical image segmentation, the need for large amounts of labeled data typically goes unquestioned. In particular, in the case of brain anatomy segmentation, hundreds or thousands of weakly-labeled volumes are often used as training data. In this paper, we first observe that for many brain structures, a small number of training examples, (n=9), weakly labeled using Freesurfer 6.0, plus simple data augmentation, suffice as training data to achieve high performance, achieving an overall mean Dice coefficient of $0.84 \pm 0.12$ compared to Freesurfer over 28 brain structures in T1-weighted images of $\approx 4000$ 9-10 year-olds from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development study. We then examine two varieties of heteroscedastic network as a method for improving classification results. An existing proposal by Kendall and Gal, which uses Monte-Carlo inference to learn to predict the variance of each prediction, yields an overall mean Dice of $0.85 \pm 0.14$ and showed statistically significant improvements over 25 brain structures. Meanwhile a novel heteroscedastic network which directly learns the probability that an example has been mislabeled yielded an overall mean Dice of $0.87 \pm 0.11$ and showed statistically significant improvements over all but one of the brain structures considered. The loss function associated to this network can be interpreted as performing a form of learned label smoothing, where labels are only smoothed where they are judged to be uncertain.
Liver lesion segmentation is a difficult yet critical task for medical image analysis. Recently, deep learning based image segmentation methods have achieved promising performance, which can be divided into three categories: 2D, 2.5D and 3D, based on the dimensionality of the models. However, 2.5D and 3D methods can have very high complexity and 2D methods may not perform satisfactorily. To obtain competitive performance with low complexity, in this paper, we propose a Feature-fusion Encoder-Decoder Network (FED-Net) based 2D segmentation model to tackle the challenging problem of liver lesion segmentation from CT images. Our feature fusion method is based on the attention mechanism, which fuses high-level features carrying semantic information with low-level features having image details. Additionally, to compensate for the information loss during the upsampling process, a dense upsampling convolution and a residual convolutional structure are proposed. We tested our method on the dataset of MICCAI 2017 Liver Tumor Segmentation (LiTS) Challenge and achieved competitive results compared with other state-of-the-art methods.
In this paper we describe a new mobile architecture, MobileNetV2, that improves the state of the art performance of mobile models on multiple tasks and benchmarks as well as across a spectrum of different model sizes. We also describe efficient ways of applying these mobile models to object detection in a novel framework we call SSDLite. Additionally, we demonstrate how to build mobile semantic segmentation models through a reduced form of DeepLabv3 which we call Mobile DeepLabv3. The MobileNetV2 architecture is based on an inverted residual structure where the input and output of the residual block are thin bottleneck layers opposite to traditional residual models which use expanded representations in the input an MobileNetV2 uses lightweight depthwise convolutions to filter features in the intermediate expansion layer. Additionally, we find that it is important to remove non-linearities in the narrow layers in order to maintain representational power. We demonstrate that this improves performance and provide an intuition that led to this design. Finally, our approach allows decoupling of the input/output domains from the expressiveness of the transformation, which provides a convenient framework for further analysis. We measure our performance on Imagenet classification, COCO object detection, VOC image segmentation. We evaluate the trade-offs between accuracy, and number of operations measured by multiply-adds (MAdd), as well as the number of parameters
Plant root research can provide a way to attain stress-tolerant crops that produce greater yield in a diverse array of conditions. Phenotyping roots in soil is often challenging due to the roots being difficult to access and the use of time consuming manual methods. Rhizotrons allow visual inspection of root growth through transparent surfaces. Agronomists currently manually label photographs of roots obtained from rhizotrons using a line-intersect method to obtain root length density and rooting depth measurements which are essential for their experiments. We investigate the effectiveness of an automated image segmentation method based on the U-Net Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture to enable such measurements. We design a data-set of 50 annotated Chicory (Cichorium intybus L.) root images which we use to train, validate and test the system and compare against a baseline built using the Frangi vesselness filter. We obtain metrics using manual annotations and line-intersect counts. Our results on the held out data show our proposed automated segmentation system to be a viable solution for detecting and quantifying roots. We evaluate our system using 867 images for which we have obtained line-intersect counts, attaining a Spearman rank correlation of 0.9748 and an $r^2$ of 0.9217. We also achieve an $F_1$ of 0.7 when comparing the automated segmentation to the manual annotations, with our automated segmentation system producing segmentations with higher quality than the manual annotations for large portions of the image.
We present an approach for fully automatic urinary bladder segmentation in CT images with artificial neural networks in this study. Automatic medical image analysis has become an invaluable tool in the different treatment stages of diseases. Especially medical image segmentation plays a vital role, since segmentation is often the initial step in an image analysis pipeline. Since deep neural networks have made a large impact on the field of image processing in the past years, we use two different deep learning architectures to segment the urinary bladder. Both of these architectures are based on pre-trained classification networks that are adapted to perform semantic segmentation. Since deep neural networks require a large amount of training data, specifically images and corresponding ground truth labels, we furthermore propose a method to generate such a suitable training data set from Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography image data. This is done by applying thresholding to the Positron Emission Tomography data for obtaining a ground truth and by utilizing data augmentation to enlarge the dataset. In this study, we discuss the influence of data augmentation on the segmentation results, and compare and evaluate the proposed architectures in terms of qualitative and quantitative segmentation performance. The results presented in this study allow concluding that deep neural networks can be considered a promising approach to segment the urinary bladder in CT images.
Human motion capture data has been widely used in data-driven character animation. In order to generate realistic, natural-looking motions, most data-driven approaches require considerable efforts of pre-processing, including motion segmentation and annotation. Existing (semi-) automatic solutions either require hand-crafted features for motion segmentation or do not produce the semantic annotations required for motion synthesis and building large-scale motion databases. In addition, human labeled annotation data suffers from inter- and intra-labeler inconsistencies by design. We propose a semi-automatic framework for semantic segmentation of motion capture data based on supervised machine learning techniques. It first transforms a motion capture sequence into a ``motion image'' and applies a convolutional neural network for image segmentation. Dilated temporal convolutions enable the extraction of temporal information from a large receptive field. Our model outperforms two state-of-the-art models for action segmentation, as well as a popular network for sequence modeling. Most of all, our method is very robust under noisy and inaccurate training labels and thus can handle human errors during the labeling process.
Various saliency detection algorithms from color images have been proposed to mimic eye fixation or attentive object detection response of human observers for the same scenes. However, developments on hyperspectral imaging systems enable us to obtain redundant spectral information of the observed scenes from the reflected light source from objects. A few studies using low-level features on hyperspectral images demonstrated that salient object detection can be achieved. In this work, we proposed a salient object detection model on hyperspectral images by applying manifold ranking (MR) on self-supervised Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) features (high-level features) from unsupervised image segmentation task. Self-supervision of CNN continues until clustering loss or saliency maps converges to a defined error between each iteration. Finally, saliency estimations is done as the saliency map at last iteration when the self-supervision procedure terminates with convergence. Experimental evaluations demonstrated that proposed saliency detection algorithm on hyperspectral images is outperforming state-of-the-arts hyperspectral saliency models including the original MR based saliency model.
Optimal surface segmentation is a state-of-the-art method used for segmentation of multiple globally optimal surfaces in volumetric datasets. The method is widely used in numerous medical image segmentation applications. However, nodes in the graph based optimal surface segmentation method typically encode uniformly distributed orthogonal voxels of the volume. Thus the segmentation cannot attain an accuracy greater than a single unit voxel, i.e. the distance between two adjoining nodes in graph space. Segmentation accuracy higher than a unit voxel is achievable by exploiting partial volume information in the voxels which shall result in non-equidistant spacing between adjoining graph nodes. This paper reports a generalized graph based multiple surface segmentation method with convex priors which can optimally segment the target surfaces in an irregularly sampled space. The proposed method allows non-equidistant spacing between the adjoining graph nodes to achieve subvoxel segmentation accuracy by utilizing the partial volume information in the voxels. The partial volume information in the voxels is exploited by computing a displacement field from the original volume data to identify the subvoxel-accurate centers within each voxel resulting in non-equidistant spacing between the adjoining graph nodes. The smoothness of each surface modeled as a convex constraint governs the connectivity and regularity of the surface. We employ an edge-based graph representation to incorporate the necessary constraints and the globally optimal solution is obtained by computing a minimum s-t cut. The proposed method was validated on 10 intravascular multi-frame ultrasound image datasets for subvoxel segmentation accuracy. In all cases, the approach yielded highly
We present a method for highly efficient landmark detection that combines deep convolutional neural networks with well established model-based fitting algorithms. Motivated by established model-based fitting methods such as active shapes, we use a PCA of the landmark positions to allow generative modeling of facial landmarks. Instead of computing the model parameters using iterative optimization, the PCA is included in a deep neural network using a novel layer type. The network predicts model parameters in a single forward pass, thereby allowing facial landmark detection at several hundreds of frames per second. Our architecture allows direct end-to-end training of a model-based landmark detection method and shows that deep neural networks can be used to reliably predict model parameters directly without the need for an iterative optimization. The method is evaluated on different datasets for facial landmark detection and medical image segmentation. PyTorch code is freely available at https://github.com/justusschock/shapenet
Current state-of-the-art deep learning segmentation methods have not yet made a broad entrance into the clinical setting in spite of high demand for such automatic methods. One important reason is the lack of reliability caused by models that fail unnoticed and often locally produce anatomically implausible results that medical experts would not make. This paper presents an automatic image segmentation method based on (Bayesian) dilated convolutional networks (DCNN) that generate segmentation masks and spatial uncertainty maps for the input image at hand. The method was trained and evaluated using segmentation of the left ventricle (LV) cavity, right ventricle (RV) endocardium and myocardium (Myo) at end-diastole (ED) and end-systole (ES) in 100 cardiac 2D MR scans from the MICCAI 2017 Challenge (ACDC). Combining segmentations and uncertainty maps and employing a human-in-the-loop setting, we provide evidence that image areas indicated as highly uncertain regarding the obtained segmentation almost entirely cover regions of incorrect segmentations. The fused information can be harnessed to increase segmentation performance. Our results reveal that we can obtain valuable spatial uncertainty maps with low computational effort using DCNNs.
Interactive image segmentation is a topic of many studies in image processing. In a conventional approach, a user marks some pixels of the object(s) of interest and background, and an algorithm propagates these labels to the rest of the image. This paper presents a new graph-based method for interactive segmentation with two stages. In the first stage, nodes representing pixels are connected to their $k$-nearest neighbors to build a complex network with the small-world property to propagate the labels quickly. In the second stage, a regular network in a grid format is used to refine the segmentation on the object borders. Despite its simplicity, the proposed method can perform the task with high accuracy. Computer simulations are performed using some real-world images to show its effectiveness in both two-classes and multi-classes problems. It is also applied to all the images from the Microsoft GrabCut dataset for comparison, and the segmentation accuracy is comparable to those achieved by some state-of-the-art methods, while it is faster than them. In particular, it outperforms some recent approaches when the user input is composed only by a few "scribbles" draw over the objects. Its computational complexity is only linear on the image size at the best-case scenario and linearithmic in the worst case.
For medical image segmentation, most fully convolutional networks (FCNs) need strong supervision through a large sample of high-quality dense segmentations, which is taxing in terms of costs, time and logistics involved. This burden of annotation can be alleviated by exploiting weak inexpensive annotations such as bounding boxes and anatomical landmarks. However, it is very difficult to \textit{a priori} estimate the optimal balance between the number of annotations needed for each supervision type that leads to maximum performance with the least annotation cost. To optimize this cost-performance trade off, we present a budget-based cost-minimization framework in a mixed-supervision setting via dense segmentations, bounding boxes, and landmarks. We propose a linear programming (LP) formulation combined with uncertainty and similarity based ranking strategy to judiciously select samples to be annotated next for optimal performance. In the results section, we show that our proposed method achieves comparable performance to state-of-the-art approaches with significantly reduced cost of annotations.
This paper presents a "learning to learn" approach to figure-ground image segmentation. By exploring webly-abundant images of specific visual effects, our method can effectively learn the visual-effect internal representations in an unsupervised manner and uses this knowledge to differentiate the figure from the ground in an image. Specifically, we formulate the meta-learning process as a compositional image editing task that learns to imitate a certain visual effect and derive the corresponding internal representation. Such a generative process can help instantiate the underlying figure-ground notion and enables the system to accomplish the intended image segmentation. Whereas existing generative methods are mostly tailored to image synthesis or style transfer, our approach offers a flexible learning mechanism to model a general concept of figure-ground segmentation from unorganized images that have no explicit pixel-level annotations. We validate our approach via extensive experiments on six datasets to demonstrate that the proposed model can be end-to-end trained without ground-truth pixel labeling yet outperforms the existing methods of unsupervised segmentation tasks.
Markov Random Fields (MRFs) are a popular model for several pattern recognition and reconstruction problems in robotics and computer vision. Inference in MRFs is intractable in general and related work resorts to approximation algorithms. Among those techniques, semidefinite programming (SDP) relaxations have been shown to provide accurate estimates while scaling poorly with the problem size and being typically slow for practical applications. Our first contribution is to design a dual ascent method to solve standard SDP relaxations that takes advantage of the geometric structure of the problem to speed up computation. This technique, named Dual Ascent Riemannian Staircase (DARS), is able to solve large problem instances in seconds. Our second contribution is to develop a second and faster approach. The backbone of this second approach is a novel SDP relaxation combined with a fast and scalable solver based on smooth Riemannian optimization. We show that this approach, named Fast Unconstrained SEmidefinite Solver (FUSES), can solve large problems in milliseconds. Contrarily to local MRF solvers, e.g., loopy belief propagation, our approaches do not require an initial guess. Moreover, we leverage recent results from optimization theory to provide per-instance sub-optimality guarantees. We demonstrate the proposed approaches in multi-class image segmentation problems. Extensive experimental evidence shows that (i) FUSES and DARS produce near-optimal solutions, attaining an objective within 0.1% of the optimum, (ii) FUSES and DARS are remarkably faster than general-purpose SDP solvers, and FUSES is more than two orders of magnitude faster than DARS while attaining similar solution quality, (iii) FUSES is
Partial differential equations (PDEs) are indispensable for modeling many physical phenomena and also commonly used for solving image processing tasks. In the latter area, PDE-based approaches interpret image data as discretizations of multivariate functions and the output of image processing algorithms as solutions to certain PDEs. Posing image processing problems in the infinite dimensional setting provides powerful tools for their analysis and solution. Over the last few decades, the reinterpretation of classical image processing problems through the PDE lens has been creating multiple celebrated approaches that benefit a vast area of tasks including image segmentation, denoising, registration, and reconstruction. In this paper, we establish a new PDE-interpretation of a class of deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) that are commonly used to learn from speech, image, and video data. Our interpretation includes convolution residual neural networks (ResNet), which are among the most promising approaches for tasks such as image classification having improved the state-of-the-art performance in prestigious benchmark challenges. Despite their recent successes, deep ResNets still face some critical challenges associated with their design, immense computational costs and memory requirements, and lack of understanding of their reasoning. Guided by well-established PDE theory, we derive three new ResNet architectures that fall into two new classes: parabolic and hyperbolic CNNs. We demonstrate how PDE theory can provide new insights and algorithms for deep learning and demonstrate the competitiveness of three new CNN architectures using numerical experiments.
Many seemingly unrelated computer vision tasks can be viewed as a special case of image decomposition into separate layers. For example, image segmentation (separation into foreground and background layers); transparent layer separation (into reflection and transmission layers); Image dehazing (separation into a clear image and a haze map), and more. In this paper we propose a unified framework for unsupervised layer decomposition of a single image, based on coupled "Deep-image-Prior" (DIP) networks. It was shown [Ulyanov et al] that the structure of a single DIP generator network is sufficient to capture the low-level statistics of a single image. We show that coupling multiple such DIPs provides a powerful tool for decomposing images into their basic components, for a wide variety of applications. This capability stems from the fact that the internal statistics of a mixture of layers is more complex than the statistics of each of its individual components. We show the power of this approach for Image-Dehazing, Fg/Bg Segmentation, Watermark-Removal, Transparency Separation in images and video, and more. These capabilities are achieved in a totally unsupervised way, with no training examples other than the input image/video itself.
Increasing the mini-batch size for stochastic gradient descent offers significant opportunities to reduce wall-clock training time, but there are a variety of theoretical and systems challenges that impede the widespread success of this technique. We investigate these issues, with an emphasis on time to convergence and total computational cost, through an extensive empirical analysis of network training across several architectures and problem domains, including image classification, image segmentation, and language modeling. Although it is common practice to increase the batch size in order to fully exploit available computational resources, we find a substantially more nuanced picture. Our main finding is that across a wide range of network architectures and problem domains, increasing the batch size beyond a certain point yields no decrease in wall-clock time to convergence for \emph{either} train or test loss. This batch size is usually substantially below the capacity of current systems. We show that popular training strategies for large batch size optimization begin to fail before we can populate all available compute resources, and we show that the point at which these methods break down depends more on attributes like model architecture and data complexity than it does directly on the size of the dataset.
Building detection from satellite multispectral imagery data is being a fundamental but a challenging problem mainly because it requires correct recovery of building footprints from high-resolution images. In this work, we propose a deep learning approach for building detection by applying numerous enhancements throughout the process. Initial dataset is preprocessed by 2-sigma percentile normalization. Then data preparation includes ensemble modelling where 3 models were created while incorporating OpenStreetMap data. Binary Distance Transformation (BDT) is used for improving data labeling process and the U-Net (Convolutional Networks for Biomedical Image Segmentation) is modified by adding batch normalization wrappers. Afterwards, it is explained how each component of our approach is correlated with the final detection accuracy. Finally, we compare our results with winning solutions of SpaceNet 2 competition for real satellite multispectral images of Vegas, Paris, Shanghai and Khartoum, demonstrating the importance of our solution for achieving higher building detection accuracy.
Collecting training data from the physical world is usually time-consuming and even dangerous for fragile robots, and thus, recent advances in robot learning advocate the use of simulators as the training platform. Unfortunately, the reality gap between synthetic and real visual data prohibits direct migration of the models trained in virtual worlds to the real world. This paper proposes a modular architecture for tackling the virtual-to-real problem. The proposed architecture separates the learning model into a perception module and a control policy module, and uses semantic image segmentation as the meta representation for relating these two modules. The perception module translates the perceived RGB image to semantic image segmentation. The control policy module is implemented as a deep reinforcement learning agent, which performs actions based on the translated image segmentation. Our architecture is evaluated in an obstacle avoidance task and a target following task. Experimental results show that our architecture significantly outperforms all of the baseline methods in both virtual and real environments, and demonstrates a faster learning curve than them. We also present a detailed analysis for a variety of variant configurations, and validate the transferability of our modular architecture.
In this paper, we focus on three problems in deep learning based medical image segmentation. Firstly, U-net, as a popular model for medical image segmentation, is difficult to train when convolutional layers increase even though a deeper network usually has a better generalization ability because of more learnable parameters. Secondly, the exponential ReLU (ELU), as an alternative of ReLU, is not much different from ReLU when the network of interest gets deep. Thirdly, the Dice loss, as one of the pervasive loss functions for medical image segmentation, is not effective when the prediction is close to ground truth and will cause oscillation during training. To address the aforementioned three problems, we propose and validate a deeper network that can fit medical image datasets that are usually small in the sample size. Meanwhile, we propose a new loss function to accelerate the learning process and a combination of different activation functions to improve the network performance. Our experimental results suggest that our network is comparable or superior to state-of-the-art methods.
In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning framework for anatomy segmentation and automatic landmark- ing. Specifically, we focus on the challenging problem of mandible segmentation from cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) scans and identification of 9 anatomical landmarks of the mandible on the geodesic space. The overall approach employs three inter-related steps. In step 1, we propose a deep neu- ral network architecture with carefully designed regularization, and network hyper-parameters to perform image segmentation without the need for data augmentation and complex post- processing refinement. In step 2, we formulate the landmark localization problem directly on the geodesic space for sparsely- spaced anatomical landmarks. In step 3, we propose to use a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to identify closely- spaced landmarks, which is rather difficult to obtain using other standard detection networks. The proposed fully automated method showed superior efficacy compared to the state-of-the- art mandible segmentation and landmarking approaches in craniofacial anomalies and diseased states. We used a very challenging CBCT dataset of 50 patients with a high-degree of craniomaxillofacial (CMF) variability that is realistic in clinical practice. Complementary to the quantitative analysis, the qualitative visual inspection was conducted for distinct CBCT scans from 250 patients with high anatomical variability. We have also shown feasibility of the proposed work in an independent dataset from MICCAI Head-Neck Challenge (2015) achieving the state-of-the-art performance. Lastly, we present an in-depth analysis of the proposed deep networks with respect to the choice of hyper-parameters such as pooling and activation functions.
Histopathological prognostication of neoplasia including most tumor grading systems are based upon a number of criteria. Probably the most important is the number of mitotic figures which are most commonly determined as the mitotic count (MC), i.e. number of mitotic figures within 10 consecutive high power fields. Often the area with the highest mitotic activity is to be selected for the MC. However, since mitotic activity is not known in advance, an arbitrary choice of this region is considered one important cause for high variability in the prognostication and grading. In this work, we present an algorithmic approach that first calculates a mitotic cell map based upon a deep convolutional network. This map is in a second step used to construct a mitotic activity estimate. Lastly, we select the image segment representing the size of ten high power fields with the overall highest mitotic activity as a region proposal for an expert MC determination. We evaluate the approach using a dataset of 32 completely annotated whole slide images, where 22 were used for training of the network and 10 for test. We find a correlation of r=0.936 in mitotic count estimate.
This paper proposes a deep learning architecture that attains statistically significant improvements over traditional algorithms in Poisson image denoising espically when the noise is strong. Poisson noise commonly occurs in low-light and photon- limited settings, where the noise can be most accurately modeled by the Poission distribution. Poisson noise traditionally prevails only in specific fields such as astronomical imaging. However, with the booming market of surveillance cameras, which commonly operate in low-light environments, or mobile phones, which produce noisy night scene pictures due to lower-grade sensors, the necessity for an advanced Poisson image denoising algorithm has increased. Deep learning has achieved amazing breakthroughs in other imaging problems, such image segmentation and recognition, and this paper proposes a deep learning denoising network that outperforms traditional algorithms in Poisson denoising especially when the noise is strong. The architecture incorporates a hybrid of convolutional and deconvolutional layers along with symmetric connections. The denoising network achieved statistically significant 0.38dB, 0.68dB, and 1.04dB average PSNR gains over benchmark traditional algorithms in experiments with image peak values 4, 2, and 1. The denoising network can also operate with shorter computational time while still outperforming the benchmark algorithm by tuning the reconstruction stride sizes.
Semantic image segmentation, which becomes one of the key applications in image processing and computer vision domain, has been used in multiple domains such as medical area and intelligent transportation. Lots of benchmark datasets are released for researchers to verify their algorithms. Semantic segmentation has been studied for many years. Since the emergence of Deep Neural Network (DNN), segmentation has made a tremendous progress. In this paper, we divide semantic image segmentation methods into two categories: traditional and recent DNN method. Firstly, we briefly summarize the traditional method as well as datasets released for segmentation, then we comprehensively investigate recent methods based on DNN which are described in the eight aspects: fully convolutional network, upsample ways, FCN joint with CRF methods, dilated convolution approaches, progresses in backbone network, pyramid methods, Multi-level feature and multi-stage method, supervised, weakly-supervised and unsupervised methods. Finally, a conclusion in this area is drawn.
Robot perception systems need to perform reliable image segmentation in real-time on noisy, raw perception data. State-of-the-art segmentation approaches use large CNN models and carefully constructed datasets; however, these models focus on accuracy at the cost of real-time inference. Furthermore, the standard semantic segmentation datasets are not large enough for training CNNs without augmentation and are not representative of noisy, uncurated robot perception data. We propose improving the performance of real-time segmentation frameworks on robot perception data by transferring features learned from synthetic segmentation data. We show that pretraining real-time segmentation architectures with synthetic segmentation data instead of ImageNet improves fine-tuning performance by reducing the bias learned in pretraining and closing the \textit{transfer gap} as a result. Our experiments show that our real-time robot perception models pretrained on synthetic data outperform those pretrained on ImageNet for every scale of fine-tuning data examined. Moreover, the degree to which synthetic pretraining outperforms ImageNet pretraining increases as the availability of robot data decreases, making our approach attractive for robotics domains where dataset collection is hard and/or expensive.
This chapter provides insight on how iris recognition, one of the leading biometric identification technologies in the world, can be impacted by pathologies and illnesses present in the eye, what are the possible repercussions of this influence, and what are the possible means for taking such effects into account when matching iris samples. To make this study possible, a special database of iris images has been used, representing more than 20 different medical conditions of the ocular region (including cataract, glaucoma, rubeosis iridis, synechiae, iris defects, corneal pathologies and other) and containing almost 3000 samples collected from 230 distinct irises. Then, with the use of four different iris recognition methods, a series of experiments has been conducted, concluding in several important observations. One of the most popular ocular disorders worldwide - the cataract - is shown to worsen genuine comparison scores when results obtained from cataract-affected eyes are compared to those coming from healthy irises. An analysis devoted to different types of impact on eye structures caused by diseases is also carried out with significant results. The enrollment process is highly sensitive to those eye conditions that make the iris obstructed or introduce geometrical distortions. Disorders affecting iris geometry, or producing obstructions are exceptionally capable of degrading the genuine comparison scores, so that the performance of the entire biometric system can be influenced. Experiments also reveal that imperfect execution of the image segmentation stage is the most prominent contributor to recognition errors.
The tracing of neural pathways through large volumes of image data is an incredibly tedious and time-consuming process that significantly encumbers progress in neuroscience. We are exploring deep learning's potential to automate segmentation of high-resolution scanning electron microscope (SEM) image data to remove that barrier. We have started with neural pathway tracing through 5.1GB of whole-brain serial-section slices from larval zebrafish collected by the Center for Brain Science at Harvard University. This kind of manual image segmentation requires years of careful work to properly trace the neural pathways in an organism as small as a zebrafish larva (approximately 5mm in total body length). In automating this process, we would vastly improve productivity, leading to faster data analysis and breakthroughs in understanding the complexity of the brain. We will build upon prior attempts to employ deep learning for automatic image segmentation extending methods for unconventional deep learning data.
For many biological image segmentation tasks, including topological knowledge, such as the nesting of classes, can greatly improve results. However, most `out-of-the-box' CNN models are still blind to such prior information. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to encode this information, through a multi-level activation layer and three compatible losses. We benchmark all of them on nuclei segmentation in bright-field microscopy cell images from the 2018 Data Science Bowl challenge, offering an exemplary segmentation task with cells and nested subcellular structures. Our scheme greatly speeds up learning, and outperforms standard multi-class classification with soft-max activation and a previously proposed method stemming from it, improving the Dice score significantly (p-values<0.007). Our approach is conceptually simple, easy to implement and can be integrated in any CNN architecture. It can be generalized to a higher number of classes, with or without further relations of containment.
Unsupervised learning poses one of the most difficult challenges in computer vision today. The task has an immense practical value with many applications in artificial intelligence and emerging technologies, as large quantities of unlabeled videos can be collected at relatively low cost. In this paper, we address the unsupervised learning problem in the context of detecting the main foreground objects in single images. We train a student deep network to predict the output of a teacher pathway that performs unsupervised object discovery in videos or large image collections. Our approach is different from published methods on unsupervised object discovery. We move the unsupervised learning phase during training time, then at test time we apply the standard feed-forward processing along the student pathway. This strategy has the benefit of allowing increased generalization possibilities during training, while remaining fast at testing. Our unsupervised learning algorithm can run over several generations of student-teacher training. Thus, a group of student networks trained in the first generation collectively create the teacher at the next generation. In experiments our method achieves top results on three current datasets for object discovery in video, unsupervised image segmentation and saliency detection. At test time the proposed system is fast, being one to two orders of magnitude faster than published unsupervised methods.
Confusing classes that are ubiquitous in real world often degrade performance for many vision related applications like object detection, classification, and segmentation. The confusion errors are not only caused by similar visual patterns but also amplified by various factors during the training of our designed models, such as reduced feature resolution in the encoding process or imbalanced data distributions. A large amount of deep learning based network structures has been proposed in recent years to deal with these individual factors and improve network performance. However, to our knowledge, no existing work in semantic image segmentation is designed to tackle confusion errors explicitly. In this paper, we present a novel and general network structure that reduces confusion errors in more direct manner and apply the network for semantic segmentation. There are two major contributions in our network structure: 1) We ensemble subnets with heterogeneous output spaces based on the discriminative confusing groups. The training for each subnet can distinguish confusing classes within the group without affecting unrelated classes outside the group. 2) We propose an improved cross-entropy loss function that maximizes the probability assigned to the correct class and penalizes the probabilities assigned to the confusing classes at the same time. Our network structure is a general structure and can be easily adapted to any other networks to further reduce confusion errors. Without any changes in the feature encoder and post-processing steps, our experiments demonstrate consistent and significant improvements on different baseline models on Cityscapes and PASCAL VOC datasets (e.g., 3.05%
White matter hyperintensity (WMH) is commonly found in elder individuals and appears to be associated with brain diseases. U-net is a convolutional network that has been widely used for biomedical image segmentation. Recently, U-net has been successfully applied to WMH segmentation. Random initialization is usally used to initialize the model weights in the U-net. However, the model may coverage to different local optima with different randomly initialized weights. We find a combination of thresholding and averaging the outputs of U-nets with different random initializations can largely improve the WMH segmentation accuracy. Based on this observation, we propose a post-processing technique concerning the way how averaging and thresholding are conducted. Specifically, we first transfer the score maps from three U-nets to binary masks via thresholding and then average those binary masks to obtain the final WMH segmentation. Both quantitative analysis (via the Dice similarity coefficient) and qualitative analysis (via visual examinations) reveal the superior performance of the proposed method. This post-processing technique is independent of the model used. As such, it can also be applied to situations where other deep learning models are employed, especially when random initialization is adopted and pre-training is unavailable.
Over the past decades, state-of-the-art medical image segmentation has heavily rested on signal processing paradigms, most notably registration-based label propagation and pair-wise patch comparison, which are generally slow despite a high segmentation accuracy. In recent years, deep learning has revolutionalized computer vision with many practices outperforming prior art, in particular the convolutional neural network (CNN) studies on image classification. Deep CNN has also started being applied to medical image segmentation lately, but generally involves long training and demanding memory requirements, achieving limited success. We propose a patch-based deep learning framework based on a revisit to the classic neural network model with substantial modernization, including the use of Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation, dropout layers, 2.5D tri-planar patch multi-pathway settings. In a test application to hippocampus segmentation using 100 brain MR images from the ADNI database, our approach significantly outperformed prior art in terms of both segmentation accuracy and speed: scoring a median Dice score up to 90.98% on a near real-time performance (<1s).
Liver cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death. To assist doctors in hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosis and treatment planning, an accurate and automatic liver and tumor segmentation method is highly demanded in the clinical practice. Recently, fully convolutional neural networks (FCNs), including 2D and 3D FCNs, serve as the back-bone in many volumetric image segmentation. However, 2D convolutions can not fully leverage the spatial information along the third dimension while 3D convolutions suffer from high computational cost and GPU memory consumption. To address these issues, we propose a novel hybrid densely connected UNet (H-DenseUNet), which consists of a 2D DenseUNet for efficiently extracting intra-slice features and a 3D counterpart for hierarchically aggregating volumetric contexts under the spirit of the auto-context algorithm for liver and tumor segmentation. We formulate the learning process of H-DenseUNet in an end-to-end manner, where the intra-slice representations and inter-slice features can be jointly optimized through a hybrid feature fusion (HFF) layer. We extensively evaluated our method on the dataset of MICCAI 2017 Liver Tumor Segmentation (LiTS) Challenge and 3DIRCADb Dataset. Our method outperformed other state-of-the-arts on the segmentation results of tumors and achieved very competitive performance for liver segmentation even with a single model.
We introduce an approach for image segmentation based on sparse correspondences between keypoints in testing and training images. Keypoints represent automatically identified distinctive image locations, where each keypoint correspondence suggests a transformation between images. We use these correspondences to transfer label maps of entire organs from the training images to the test image. The keypoint transfer algorithm includes three steps: (i) keypoint matching, (ii) voting-based keypoint labeling, and (iii) keypoint-based probabilistic transfer of organ segmentations. We report segmentation results for abdominal organs in whole-body CT and MRI, as well as in contrast-enhanced CT and MRI. Our method offers a speed-up of about three orders of magnitude in comparison to common multi-atlas segmentation, while achieving an accuracy that compares favorably. Moreover, keypoint transfer does not require the registration to an atlas or a training phase. Finally, the method allows for the segmentation of scans with highly variable field-of-view.
Semantic image segmentation plays an important role in modeling patient-specific anatomy. We propose a convolution neural network, called Kid-Net, along with a training schema to segment kidney vessels: artery, vein and collecting system. Such segmentation is vital during the surgical planning phase in which medical decisions are made before surgical incision. Our main contribution is developing a training schema that handles unbalanced data, reduces false positives and enables high-resolution segmentation with a limited memory budget. These objectives are attained using dynamic weighting, random sampling and 3D patch segmentation. Manual medical image annotation is both time-consuming and expensive. Kid-Net reduces kidney vessels segmentation time from matter of hours to minutes. It is trained end-to-end using 3D patches from volumetric CT-images. A complete segmentation for a 512x512x512 CT-volume is obtained within a few minutes (1-2 mins) by stitching the output 3D patches together. Feature down-sampling and up-sampling are utilized to achieve higher classification and localization accuracies. Quantitative and qualitative evaluation results on a challenging testing dataset show Kid-Net competence.
NeuroNet is a deep convolutional neural network mimicking multiple popular and state-of-the-art brain segmentation tools including FSL, SPM, and MALPEM. The network is trained on 5,000 T1-weighted brain MRI scans from the UK Biobank Imaging Study that have been automatically segmented into brain tissue and cortical and sub-cortical structures using the standard neuroimaging pipelines. Training a single model from these complementary and partially overlapping label maps yields a new powerful "all-in-one", multi-output segmentation tool. The processing time for a single subject is reduced by an order of magnitude compared to running each individual software package. We demonstrate very good reproducibility of the original outputs while increasing robustness to variations in the input data. We believe NeuroNet could be an important tool in large-scale population imaging studies and serve as a new standard in neuroscience by reducing the risk of introducing bias when choosing a specific software package.
Uncertainty estimation methods are expected to improve the understanding and quality of computer-assisted methods used in medical applications (e.g., neurosurgical interventions, radiotherapy planning), where automated medical image segmentation is crucial. In supervised machine learning, a common practice to generate ground truth label data is to merge observer annotations. However, as many medical image tasks show a high inter-observer variability resulting from factors such as image quality, different levels of user expertise and domain knowledge, little is known as to how inter-observer variability and commonly used fusion methods affect the estimation of uncertainty of automated image segmentation. In this paper we analyze the effect of common image label fusion techniques on uncertainty estimation, and propose to learn the uncertainty among observers. The results highlight the negative effect of fusion methods applied in deep learning, to obtain reliable estimates of segmentation uncertainty. Additionally, we show that the learned observers' uncertainty can be combined with current standard Monte Carlo dropout Bayesian neural networks to characterize uncertainty of model's parameters.
Deep learning has been widely accepted as a promising solution for medical image segmentation, given a sufficiently large representative dataset of images with corresponding annotations. With ever increasing amounts of annotated medical datasets, it is infeasible to train a learning method always with all data from scratch. This is also doomed to hit computational limits, e.g., memory or runtime feasible for training. Incremental learning can be a potential solution, where new information (images or anatomy) is introduced iteratively. Nevertheless, for the preservation of the collective information, it is essential to keep some "important" (i.e. representative) images and annotations from the past, while adding new information. In this paper, we introduce a framework for applying incremental learning for segmentation and propose novel methods for selecting representative data therein. We comparatively evaluate our methods in different scenarios using MR images and validate the increased learning capacity with using our methods.
A variety of deep neural networks have been applied in medical image segmentation and achieve good performance. Unlike natural images, medical images of the same imaging modality are characterized by the same pattern, which indicates that same normal organs or tissues locate at similar positions in the images. Thus, in this paper we try to incorporate the prior knowledge of medical images into the structure of neural networks such that the prior knowledge can be utilized for accurate segmentation. Based on this idea, we propose a novel deep network called knowledge-based fully convolutional network (KFCN) for medical image segmentation. The segmentation function and corresponding error is analyzed. We show the existence of an asymptotically stable region for KFCN which traditional FCN doesn't possess. Experiments validate our knowledge assumption about the incorporation of prior knowledge into the convolution kernels of KFCN and show that KFCN can achieve a reasonable segmentation and a satisfactory accuracy.
For the challenging semantic image segmentation task the most efficient models have traditionally combined the structured modelling capabilities of Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) with the feature extraction power of CNNs. In more recent works however, CRF post-processing has fallen out of favour. We argue that this is mainly due to the slow training and inference speeds of CRFs, as well as the difficulty of learning the internal CRF parameters. To overcome both issues we propose to add the assumption of conditional independence to the framework of fully-connected CRFs. This allows us to reformulate the inference in terms of convolutions, which can be implemented highly efficiently on GPUs. Doing so speeds up inference and training by a factor of more then 100. All parameters of the convolutional CRFs can easily be optimized using backpropagation. To facilitating further CRF research we make our implementation publicly available. Please visit: https://github.com/MarvinTeichmann/ConvCRF
Machine learning models produce state-of-the-art results in many MRI images segmentation. However, most of these models are trained on very large datasets which come from experts manual labeling. This labeling process is very time consuming and costs experts work. Therefore finding a way to reduce this cost is on high demand. In this paper, we propose a segmentation method which exploits MRI images sequential structure to nearly drop out this labeling task. Only the first slice needs to be manually labeled to train the model which then infers the next slice's segmentation. Inference result is another datum used to train the model again. The updated model then infers the third slice and the same process is carried out until the last slice. The proposed model is an combination of two Random Forest algorithms: the classical one and a recent one namely Mondrian Forests. We applied our method on human left ventricle segmentation and results are very promising. This method can also be used to generate labels.
We propose a novel locally adaptive learning estimator for enhancing the inter- and intra- discriminative capabilities of Deep Neural Networks, which can be used as improved loss layer for semantic image segmentation tasks. Most loss layers compute pixel-wise cost between feature maps and ground truths, ignoring spatial layouts and interactions between neighboring pixels with same object category, and thus networks cannot be effectively sensitive to intra-class connections. Stride by stride, our method firstly conducts adaptive pooling filter operating over predicted feature maps, aiming to merge predicted distributions over a small group of neighboring pixels with same category, and then it computes cost between the merged distribution vector and their category label. Such design can make groups of neighboring predictions from same category involved into estimations on predicting correctness with respect to their category, and hence train networks to be more sensitive to regional connections between adjacent pixels based on their categories. In the experiments on Pascal VOC 2012 segmentation datasets, the consistently improved results show that our proposed approach achieves better segmentation masks against previous counterparts.
The Jaccard index, also referred to as the intersection-over-union score, is commonly employed in the evaluation of image segmentation results given its perceptual qualities, scale invariance - which lends appropriate relevance to small objects, and appropriate counting of false negatives, in comparison to per-pixel losses. We present a method for direct optimization of the mean intersection-over-union loss in neural networks, in the context of semantic image segmentation, based on the convex Lov\'asz extension of submodular losses. The loss is shown to perform better with respect to the Jaccard index measure than the traditionally used cross-entropy loss. We show quantitative and qualitative differences between optimizing the Jaccard index per image versus optimizing the Jaccard index taken over an entire dataset. We evaluate the impact of our method in a semantic segmentation pipeline and show substantially improved intersection-over-union segmentation scores on the Pascal VOC and Cityscapes datasets using state-of-the-art deep learning segmentation architectures.
Image foreground extraction is a classical problem in image processing and vision, with a large range of applications. In this dissertation, we focus on the extraction of text and graphics in mixed-content images, and design novel approaches for various aspects of this problem. We first propose a sparse decomposition framework, which models the background by a subspace containing smooth basis vectors, and foreground as a sparse and connected component. We then formulate an optimization framework to solve this problem, by adding suitable regularizations to the cost function to promote the desired characteristics of each component. We present two techniques to solve the proposed optimization problem, one based on alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM), and the other one based on robust regression. Promising results are obtained for screen content image segmentation using the proposed algorithm. We then propose a robust subspace learning algorithm for the representation of the background component using training images that could contain both background and foreground components, as well as noise. With the learnt subspace for the background, we can further improve the segmentation results, compared to using a fixed subspace. Lastly, we investigate a different class of signal/image decomposition problem, where only one signal component is active at each signal element. In this case, besides estimating each component, we need to find their supports, which can be specified by a binary mask. We propose a mixed-integer programming problem, that jointly estimates the two components and their supports through an alternating optimization scheme. We show the
Pixelwise segmentation of the left ventricular (LV) myocardium and the four cardiac chambers in 2-D steady state free precession (SSFP) cine sequences is an essential preprocessing step for a wide range of analyses. Variability in contrast, appearance, orientation, and placement of the heart between patients, clinical views, scanners, and protocols makes fully automatic semantic segmentation a notoriously difficult problem. Here, we present ${\Omega}$-Net (Omega-Net): a novel convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture for simultaneous localization, transformation into a canonical orientation, and semantic segmentation. First, an initial segmentation is performed on the input image, second, the features learned during this initial segmentation are used to predict the parameters needed to transform the input image into a canonical orientation, and third, a final segmentation is performed on the transformed image. In this work, ${\Omega}$-Nets of varying depths were trained to detect five foreground classes in any of three clinical views (short axis, SA, four-chamber, 4C, two-chamber, 2C), without prior knowledge of the view being segmented. The architecture was trained on a cohort of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and healthy control subjects. Network performance as measured by weighted foreground intersection-over-union (IoU) was substantially improved in the best-performing ${\Omega}$- Net compared with U-Net segmentation without localization or orientation. In addition, {\Omega}-Net was retrained from scratch on the 2017 MICCAI ACDC dataset, and achieves state-of-the-art results on the LV and RV bloodpools, and performed slightly worse in segmentation of the LV myocardium. We conclude this architecture represents a substantive advancement over prior approaches, with implications for
With pervasive applications of medical imaging in health-care, biomedical image segmentation plays a central role in quantitative analysis, clinical diagno- sis, and medical intervention. Since manual anno- tation su ers limited reproducibility, arduous e orts, and excessive time, automatic segmentation is desired to process increasingly larger scale histopathological data. Recently, deep neural networks (DNNs), par- ticularly fully convolutional networks (FCNs), have been widely applied to biomedical image segmenta- tion, attaining much improved performance. At the same time, quantization of DNNs has become an ac- tive research topic, which aims to represent weights with less memory (precision) to considerably reduce memory and computation requirements of DNNs while maintaining acceptable accuracy. In this paper, we apply quantization techniques to FCNs for accurate biomedical image segmentation. Unlike existing litera- ture on quantization which primarily targets memory and computation complexity reduction, we apply quan- tization as a method to reduce over tting in FCNs for better accuracy. Speci cally, we focus on a state-of- the-art segmentation framework, suggestive annotation [22], which judiciously extracts representative annota- tion samples from the original training dataset, obtain- ing an e ective small-sized balanced training dataset. We develop two new quantization processes for this framework: (1) suggestive annotation with quantiza- tion for highly representative training samples, and (2) network training with quantization for high accuracy. Extensive experiments on the MICCAI Gland dataset show that both quantization processes can improve the segmentation performance, and our proposed method exceeds the current state-of-the-art performance by up to 1%. In addition, our method
We propose a novel traffic sign detection system that simultaneously estimates the location and precise boundary of traffic signs using convolutional neural network (CNN). Estimating the precise boundary of traffic signs is important in navigation systems for intelligent vehicles where traffic signs can be used as 3D landmarks for road environment. Previous traffic sign detection systems, including recent methods based on CNN, only provide bounding boxes of traffic signs as output, and thus requires additional processes such as contour estimation or image segmentation to obtain the precise sign boundary. In this work, the boundary estimation of traffic signs is formulated as a 2D pose and shape class prediction problem, and this is effectively solved by a single CNN. With the predicted 2D pose and the shape class of a target traffic sign in an input image, we estimate the actual boundary of the target sign by projecting the boundary of a corresponding template sign image into the input image plane. By formulating the boundary estimation problem as a CNN-based pose and shape prediction task, our method is end-to-end trainable, and more robust to occlusion and small targets than other boundary estimation methods that rely on contour estimation or image segmentation. The proposed method with architectural optimization provides an accurate traffic sign boundary estimation which is also efficient in compute, showing a detection frame rate higher than 7 frames per second on low-power mobile platforms.
This review presents an in-depth study of the literature on segmentation methods applied in dental imaging. Ten segmentation methods were studied and categorized according to the type of the segmentation method (region-based, threshold-based, cluster-based, boundary-based or watershed-based), type of X-ray images used (intra-oral or extra-oral) and characteristics of the dataset used to evaluate the methods in the state-of-the-art works. We found that the literature has primarily focused on threshold-based segmentation methods (54%). 80% of the reviewed papers have used intra-oral X-ray images in their experiments, demonstrating preference to perform segmentation on images of already isolated parts of the teeth, rather than using extra-oral X-rays, which show tooth structure of the mouth and bones of the face. To fill a scientific gap in the field, a novel data set based on extra-oral X-ray images are proposed here. A statistical comparison of the results found with the 10 image segmentation methods over our proposed data set comprised of 1,500 images is also carried out, providing a more comprehensive source of performance assessment. Discussion on limitations of the methods conceived over the past year as well as future perspectives on exploiting learning-based segmentation methods to improve performance are also provided.
This paper reports Deep LOGISMOS approach to 3D tumor segmentation by incorporating boundary information derived from deep contextual learning to LOGISMOS - layered optimal graph image segmentation of multiple objects and surfaces. Accurate and reliable tumor segmentation is essential to tumor growth analysis and treatment selection. A fully convolutional network (FCN), UNet, is first trained using three adjacent 2D patches centered at the tumor, providing contextual UNet segmentation and probability map for each 2D patch. The UNet segmentation is then refined by Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) and morphological operations. The refined UNet segmentation is used to provide the initial shape boundary to build a segmentation graph. The cost for each node of the graph is determined by the UNet probability maps. Finally, a max-flow algorithm is employed to find the globally optimal solution thus obtaining the final segmentation. For evaluation, we applied the method to pancreatic tumor segmentation on a dataset of 51 CT scans, among which 30 scans were used for training and 21 for testing. With Deep LOGISMOS, DICE Similarity Coefficient (DSC) and Relative Volume Difference (RVD) reached 83.2+-7.8% and 18.6+-17.4% respectively, both are significantly improved (p<0.05) compared with contextual UNet and/or LOGISMOS alone.
Automated cardiac image interpretation has the potential to transform clinical practice in multiple ways including enabling low-cost serial assessment of cardiac function in the primary care and rural setting. We hypothesized that advances in computer vision could enable building a fully automated, scalable analysis pipeline for echocardiogram (echo) interpretation. Our approach entailed: 1) preprocessing; 2) convolutional neural networks (CNN) for view identification, image segmentation, and phasing of the cardiac cycle; 3) quantification of chamber volumes and left ventricular mass; 4) particle tracking to compute longitudinal strain; and 5) targeted disease detection. CNNs accurately identified views (e.g. 99% for apical 4-chamber) and segmented individual cardiac chambers. Cardiac structure measurements agreed with study report values (e.g. mean absolute deviations (MAD) of 7.7 mL/kg/m2 for left ventricular diastolic volume index, 2918 studies). We computed automated ejection fraction and longitudinal strain measurements (within 2 cohorts), which agreed with commercial software-derived values [for ejection fraction, MAD=5.3%, N=3101 studies; for strain, MAD=1.5% (n=197) and 1.6% (n=110)], and demonstrated applicability to serial monitoring of breast cancer patients for trastuzumab cardiotoxicity. Overall, we found that, compared to manual measurements, automated measurements had superior performance across seven internal consistency metrics with an average increase in the Spearman correlation coefficient of 0.05 (p=0.02). Finally, we developed disease detection algorithms for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and cardiac amyloidosis, with C-statistics of 0.93 and 0.84, respectively. Our pipeline lays the groundwork for using automated interpretation to support point-of-care handheld cardiac ultrasound and large-scale analysis of the millions of echos archived within healthcare systems.
The segmentation of animals from camera-trap images is a difficult task. To illustrate, there are various challenges due to environmental conditions and hardware limitation in these images. We proposed a multi-layer robust principal component analysis (multi-layer RPCA) approach for background subtraction. Our method computes sparse and low-rank images from a weighted sum of descriptors, using color and texture features as case of study for camera-trap images segmentation. The segmentation algorithm is composed of histogram equalization or Gaussian filtering as pre-processing, and morphological filters with active contour as post-processing. The parameters of our multi-layer RPCA were optimized with an exhaustive search. The database consists of camera-trap images from the Colombian forest taken by the Instituto de Investigaci\'on de Recursos Biol\'ogicos Alexander von Humboldt. We analyzed the performance of our method in inherent and therefore challenging situations of camera-trap images. Furthermore, we compared our method with some state-of-the-art algorithms of background subtraction, where our multi-layer RPCA outperformed these other methods. Our multi-layer RPCA reached 76.17 and 69.97% of average fine-grained F-measure for color and infrared sequences, respectively. To our best knowledge, this paper is the first work proposing multi-layer RPCA and using it for camera-trap images segmentation.
Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and the major hurdle in biomedical image analysis is the determination of the cancer extent. This assignment has high clinical relevance and would generally require vast microscopic assessment by pathologists. Recent advances in deep learning have produced inspiring results on biomedical image segmentation, while its outcome is reliant on comprehensive annotation. This requires plenty of labor costs, for the ground truth must be annotated meticulously by pathologists. In this paper, a reiterative learning framework was presented to train our network on partial annotated biomedical images, and superior performance was achieved without any pre-trained or further manual annotation. We eliminate the boundary error of patch-based model through our overlapped region forecast algorithm. Through these advisable methods, a mean intersection over union coefficient (IOU) of 0.883 and mean accuracy of 91.09% on the partial labeled dataset was achieved, which made us win the 2017 China Big Data & Artificial Intelligence Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competitions.
According to the World Health Organization, breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women. It is the second leading cause of death among women round the world, becoming the most fatal form of cancer. Mammographic image segmentation is a fundamental task to support image analysis and diagnosis, taking into account shape analysis of mammary lesions and their borders. However, mammogram segmentation is a very hard process, once it is highly dependent on the types of mammary tissues. In this work we present a new semi-supervised segmentation algorithm based on the modification of the GrowCut algorithm to perform automatic mammographic image segmentation once a region of interest is selected by a specialist. In our proposal, we used fuzzy Gaussian membership functions to modify the evolution rule of the original GrowCut algorithm, in order to estimate the uncertainty of a pixel being object or background. The main impact of the proposed method is the significant reduction of expert effort in the initialization of seed points of GrowCut to perform accurate segmentation, once it removes the need of selection of background seeds. We also constructed an automatic point selection process based on the simulated annealing optimization method, avoiding the need of human intervention. The proposed approach was qualitatively compared with other state-of-the-art segmentation techniques, considering the shape of segmented regions. In order to validate our proposal, we built an image classifier using a classical multilayer perceptron. We used Zernike moments to extract segmented image features. This analysis employed 685 mammograms
With the rapidly increasing interest in machine learning based solutions for automatic image annotation, the availability of reference annotations for algorithm training is one of the major bottlenecks in the field. Crowdsourcing has evolved as a valuable option for low-cost and large-scale data annotation; however, quality control remains a major issue which needs to be addressed. To our knowledge, we are the first to analyze the annotation process to improve crowd-sourced image segmentation. Our method involves training a regressor to estimate the quality of a segmentation from the annotator's clickstream data. The quality estimation can be used to identify spam and weight individual annotations by their (estimated) quality when merging multiple segmentations of one image. Using a total of 29,000 crowd annotations performed on publicly available data of different object classes, we show that (1) our method is highly accurate in estimating the segmentation quality based on clickstream data, (2) outperforms state-of-the-art methods for merging multiple annotations. As the regressor does not need to be trained on the object class that it is applied to it can be regarded as a low-cost option for quality control and confidence analysis in the context of crowd-based image annotation.
While significant attention has been recently focused on designing supervised deep semantic segmentation algorithms for vision tasks, there are many domains in which sufficient supervised pixel-level labels are difficult to obtain. In this paper, we revisit the problem of purely unsupervised image segmentation and propose a novel deep architecture for this problem. We borrow recent ideas from supervised semantic segmentation methods, in particular by concatenating two fully convolutional networks together into an autoencoder--one for encoding and one for decoding. The encoding layer produces a k-way pixelwise prediction, and both the reconstruction error of the autoencoder as well as the normalized cut produced by the encoder are jointly minimized during training. When combined with suitable postprocessing involving conditional random field smoothing and hierarchical segmentation, our resulting algorithm achieves impressive results on the benchmark Berkeley Segmentation Data Set, outperforming a number of competing methods.
Accurate and reliable brain tumor segmentation is a critical component in cancer diagnosis, treatment planning, and treatment outcome evaluation. Build upon successful deep learning techniques, a novel brain tumor segmentation method is developed by integrating fully convolutional neural networks (FCNNs) and Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) in a unified framework to obtain segmentation results with appearance and spatial consistency. We train a deep learning based segmentation model using 2D image patches and image slices in following steps: 1) training FCNNs using image patches; 2) training CRFs as Recurrent Neural Networks (CRF-RNN) using image slices with parameters of FCNNs fixed; and 3) fine-tuning the FCNNs and the CRF-RNN using image slices. Particularly, we train 3 segmentation models using 2D image patches and slices obtained in axial, coronal and sagittal views respectively, and combine them to segment brain tumors using a voting based fusion strategy. Our method could segment brain images slice-by-slice, much faster than those based on image patches. We have evaluated our method based on imaging data provided by the Multimodal Brain Tumor Image Segmentation Challenge (BRATS) 2013, BRATS 2015 and BRATS 2016. The experimental results have demonstrated that our method could build a segmentation model with Flair, T1c, and T2 scans and achieve competitive performance as those built with Flair, T1, T1c, and T2 scans.
The quantitative analysis of 3D confocal microscopy images of the shoot apical meristem helps understanding the growth process of some plants. Cell segmentation in these images is crucial for computational plant analysis and many automated methods have been proposed. However, variations in signal intensity across the image mitigate the effectiveness of those approaches with no easy way for user correction. We propose a web-based collaborative 3D image segmentation application, SEGMENT3D, to leverage automatic segmentation results. The image is divided into 3D tiles that can be either segmented interactively from scratch or corrected from a pre-existing segmentation. Individual segmentation results per tile are then automatically merged via consensus analysis and then stitched to complete the segmentation for the entire image stack. SEGMENT3D is a comprehensive application that can be applied to other 3D imaging modalities and general objects. It also provides an easy way to create supervised data to advance segmentation using machine learning models.
Accurate segmentation of the heart is an important step towards evaluating cardiac function. In this paper, we present a fully automated framework for segmentation of the left (LV) and right (RV) ventricular cavities and the myocardium (Myo) on short-axis cardiac MR images. We investigate various 2D and 3D convolutional neural network architectures for this task. We investigate the suitability of various state-of-the art 2D and 3D convolutional neural network architectures, as well as slight modifications thereof, for this task. Experiments were performed on the ACDC 2017 challenge training dataset comprising cardiac MR images of 100 patients, where manual reference segmentations were made available for end-diastolic (ED) and end-systolic (ES) frames. We find that processing the images in a slice-by-slice fashion using 2D networks is beneficial due to a relatively large slice thickness. However, the exact network architecture only plays a minor role. We report mean Dice coefficients of $0.950$ (LV), $0.893$ (RV), and $0.899$ (Myo), respectively with an average evaluation time of 1.1 seconds per volume on a modern GPU.
Marking tumors and organs is a challenging task suffering from both inter- and intra-observer variability. The literature quantifies observer variability by generating consensus among multiple experts when they mark the same image. Automatically building consensus contours to establish quality assurance for image segmentation is presently absent in the clinical practice. As the \emph{big data} becomes more and more available, techniques to access a large number of existing segments of multiple experts becomes possible. Fast algorithms are, hence, required to facilitate the search for similar cases. The present work puts forward a potential framework that tested with small datasets (both synthetic and real images) displays the reliability of finding similar images. In this paper, the idea of content-based barcodes is used to retrieve similar cases in order to build consensus contours in medical image segmentation. This approach may be regarded as an extension of the conventional atlas-based segmentation that generally works with rather small atlases due to required computational expenses. The fast segment-retrieval process via barcodes makes it possible to create and use large atlases, something that directly contributes to the quality of the consensus building. Because the accuracy of experts' contours must be measured, we first used 500 synthetic prostate images with their gold markers and delineations by 20 simulated users. The fast barcode-guided computed consensus delivered an average error of $8\%\!\pm\!5\%$ compared against the gold standard segments. Furthermore, we used magnetic resonance images of prostates from 15 patients delineated by 5 oncologists and selected the best delineations to serve
Semantic image segmentation is an important computer vision task that is difficult because it consists of both recognition and segmentation. The task is often cast as a structured output problem on an exponentially large output-space, which is typically modeled by a discrete probabilistic model. The best segmentation is found by inferring the Maximum a-Posteriori (MAP) solution over the output distribution defined by the model. Due to limitations in optimization, the model cannot be arbitrarily complex. This leads to a trade-off: devise a more accurate model that incorporates rich high-order interactions between image elements at the cost of inaccurate and possibly intractable optimization OR leverage a tractable model which produces less accurate MAP solutions but may contain high quality solutions as other modes of its output distribution. This thesis investigates the latter and presents a two stage approach to semantic segmentation. In the first stage a tractable segmentation model outputs a set of high probability segmentations from the underlying distribution that are not just minor perturbations of each other. Critically the output of this stage is a diverse set of plausible solutions and not just a single one. In the second stage, a discriminatively trained re-ranking model selects the best segmentation from this set. The re-ranking stage can use much more complex features than what could be tractably used in the segmentation model, allowing a better exploration of the solution space than simply returning the MAP solution. The formulation is agnostic to the underlying segmentation model (e.g. CRF, CNN, etc.) and
In many computer vision tasks, we expect a particular behavior of the output with respect to rotations of the input image. If this relationship is explicitly encoded, instead of treated as any other variation, the complexity of the problem is decreased, leading to a reduction in the size of the required model. In this paper, we propose the Rotation Equivariant Vector Field Networks (RotEqNet), a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture encoding rotation equivariance, invariance and covariance. Each convolutional filter is applied at multiple orientations and returns a vector field representing magnitude and angle of the highest scoring orientation at every spatial location. We develop a modified convolution operator relying on this representation to obtain deep architectures. We test RotEqNet on several problems requiring different responses with respect to the inputs' rotation: image classification, biomedical image segmentation, orientation estimation and patch matching. In all cases, we show that RotEqNet offers extremely compact models in terms of number of parameters and provides results in line to those of networks orders of magnitude larger.
Slack and margin rescaling are variants of the structured output SVM, which is frequently applied to problems in computer vision such as image segmentation, object localization, and learning parts based object models. They define convex surrogates to task specific loss functions, which, when specialized to non-additive loss functions for multi-label problems, yield extensions to increasing set functions. We demonstrate in this paper that we may use these concepts to define polynomial time convex extensions of arbitrary supermodular functions, providing an analysis framework for the tightness of these surrogates. This analysis framework shows that, while neither margin nor slack rescaling dominate the other, known bounds on supermodular functions can be used to derive extensions that dominate both of these, indicating possible directions for defining novel structured output prediction surrogates. In addition to the analysis of structured prediction loss functions, these results imply an approach to supermodular minimization in which margin rescaling is combined with non-polynomial time convex extensions to compute a sequence of LP relaxations reminiscent of a cutting plane method. This approach is applied to the problem of selecting representative exemplars from a set of images, validating our theoretical contributions.
Non-invasive detection of cardiovascular disorders from radiology scans requires quantitative image analysis of the heart and its substructures. There are well-established measurements that radiologists use for diseases assessment such as ejection fraction, volume of four chambers, and myocardium mass. These measurements are derived as outcomes of precise segmentation of the heart and its substructures. The aim of this paper is to provide such measurements through an accurate image segmentation algorithm that automatically delineates seven substructures of the heart from MRI and/or CT scans. Our proposed method is based on multi-planar deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) with an adaptive fusion strategy where we automatically utilize complementary information from different planes of the 3D scans for improved delineations. For CT and MRI, we have separately designed three CNNs (the same architectural configuration) for three planes, and have trained the networks from scratch for voxel-wise labeling for the following cardiac structures: myocardium of left ventricle (Myo), left atrium (LA), left ventricle (LV), right atrium (RA), right ventricle (RV), ascending aorta (Ao), and main pulmonary artery (PA). We have evaluated the proposed method with 4-fold-cross validation on the multi-modality whole heart segmentation challenge (MM-WHS 2017) dataset. The precision and dice index of 0.93 and 0.90, and 0.87 and 0.85 were achieved for CT and MR images, respectively. While a CT volume was segmented about 50 seconds, an MRI scan was segmented around 17 seconds with the GPUs/CUDA implementation.
Delineation of line patterns in images is a basic step required in various applications such as blood vessel detection in medical images, segmentation of rivers or roads in aerial images, detection of cracks in walls or pavements, etc. In this paper we present trainable B-COSFIRE filters, which are a model of some neurons in area V1 of the primary visual cortex, and apply it to the delineation of line patterns in different kinds of images. B-COSFIRE filters are trainable as their selectivity is determined in an automatic configuration process given a prototype pattern of interest. They are configurable to detect any preferred line structure (e.g. segments, corners, cross-overs, etc.), so usable for automatic data representation learning. We carried out experiments on two data sets, namely a line-network data set from INRIA and a data set of retinal fundus images named IOSTAR. The results that we achieved confirm the robustness of the proposed approach and its effectiveness in the delineation of line structures in different kinds of images.
Image segmentation has come a long way since the early days of computer vision, and still remains a challenging task. Modern variations of the classical (purely bottom-up) approach, involve, e.g., some form of user assistance (interactive segmentation) or ask for the simultaneous segmentation of two or more images (co-segmentation). At an abstract level, all these variants can be thought of as "constrained" versions of the original formulation, whereby the segmentation process is guided by some external source of information. In this paper, we propose a new approach to tackle this kind of problems in a unified way. Our work is based on some properties of a family of quadratic optimization problems related to dominant sets, a well-known graph-theoretic notion of a cluster which generalizes the concept of a maximal clique to edge-weighted graphs. In particular, we show that by properly controlling a regularization parameter which determines the structure and the scale of the underlying problem, we are in a position to extract groups of dominant-set clusters that are constrained to contain predefined elements. In particular, we shall focus on interactive segmentation and co-segmentation (in both the unsupervised and the interactive versions). The proposed algorithm can deal naturally with several type of constraints and input modality, including scribbles, sloppy contours, and bounding boxes, and is able to robustly handle noisy annotations on the part of the user. Experiments on standard benchmark datasets show the effectiveness of our approach as compared to state-of-the-art algorithms on a variety of natural images under several
Training deep fully convolutional neural networks (F-CNNs) for semantic image segmentation requires access to abundant labeled data. While large datasets of unlabeled image data are available in medical applications, access to manually labeled data is very limited. We propose to automatically create auxiliary labels on initially unlabeled data with existing tools and to use them for pre-training. For the subsequent fine-tuning of the network with manually labeled data, we introduce error corrective boosting (ECB), which emphasizes parameter updates on classes with lower accuracy. Furthermore, we introduce SkipDeconv-Net (SD-Net), a new F-CNN architecture for brain segmentation that combines skip connections with the unpooling strategy for upsampling. The SD-Net addresses challenges of severe class imbalance and errors along boundaries. With application to whole-brain MRI T1 scan segmentation, we generate auxiliary labels on a large dataset with FreeSurfer and fine-tune on two datasets with manual annotations. Our results show that the inclusion of auxiliary labels and ECB yields significant improvements. SD-Net segments a 3D scan in 7 secs in comparison to 30 hours for the closest multi-atlas segmentation method, while reaching similar performance. It also outperforms the latest state-of-the-art F-CNN models.
Background: Cardiac MRI derived biventricular mass and function parameters, such as end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume (EDV), ejection fraction (EF), stroke volume (SV), and ventricular mass (VM) are clinically well established. Image segmentation can be challenging and time-consuming, due to the complex anatomy of the human heart. Objectives: This study introduces $\nu$-net (/nju:n$\varepsilon$t/) -- a deep learning approach allowing for fully-automated high quality segmentation of right (RV) and left ventricular (LV) endocardium and epicardium for extraction of cardiac function parameters. Methods: A set consisting of 253 manually segmented cases has been used to train a deep neural network. Subsequently, the network has been evaluated on 4 different multicenter data sets with a total of over 1000 cases. Results: For LV EF the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) is 98, 95, and 80 % (95 %), and for RV EF 96, and 87 % (80 %) on the respective data sets (human expert ICCs reported in parenthesis). The LV VM ICC is 95, and 94 % (84 %), and the RV VM ICC is 83, and 83 % (54 %). This study proposes a simple adjustment procedure, allowing for the adaptation to distinct segmentation philosophies. $\nu$-net exhibits state of-the-art performance in terms of dice coefficient. Conclusions: Biventricular mass and function parameters can be determined reliably in high quality by applying a deep neural network for cardiac MRI segmentation, especially in the anatomically complex right ventricle. Adaption to individual segmentation styles by applying a simple adjustment procedure is viable, allowing for the processing
Shape priors have been widely utilized in medical image segmentation to improve segmentation accuracy and robustness. A major way to encode such a prior shape model is to use a mesh representation, which is prone to causing self-intersection or mesh folding. Those problems require complex and expensive algorithms to mitigate. In this paper, we propose a novel shape prior directly embedded in the voxel grid space, based on gradient vector flows of a pre-segmentation. The flexible and powerful prior shape representation is ready to be extended to simultaneously segmenting multiple interacting objects with minimum separation distance constraint. The problem is formulated as a Markov random field problem whose exact solution can be efficiently computed with a single minimum s-t cut in an appropriately constructed graph. The proposed algorithm is validated on two multi-object segmentation applications: the brain tissue segmentation in MRI images, and the bladder/prostate segmentation in CT images. Both sets of experiments show superior or competitive performance of the proposed method to other state-of-the-art methods.
State-of-the-art semantic image segmentation methods are mostly based on training deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). In this work, we proffer to improve semantic segmentation with the use of contextual information. In particular, we explore `patch-patch' context and `patch-background' context in deep CNNs. We formulate deep structured models by combining CNNs and Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) for learning the patch-patch context between image regions. Specifically, we formulate CNN-based pairwise potential functions to capture semantic correlations between neighboring patches. Efficient piecewise training of the proposed deep structured model is then applied in order to avoid repeated expensive CRF inference during the course of back propagation. For capturing the patch-background context, we show that a network design with traditional multi-scale image inputs and sliding pyramid pooling is very effective for improving performance. We perform comprehensive evaluation of the proposed method. We achieve new state-of-the-art performance on a number of challenging semantic segmentation datasets including $NYUDv2$, $PASCAL$-$VOC2012$, $Cityscapes$, $PASCAL$-$Context$, $SUN$-$RGBD$, $SIFT$-$flow$, and $KITTI$ datasets. Particularly, we report an intersection-over-union score of $77.8$ on the $PASCAL$-$VOC2012$ dataset.
Healthcare sector is totally different from other industry. It is on high priority sector and people expect highest level of care and services regardless of cost. It did not achieve social expectation even though it consume huge percentage of budget. Mostly the interpretations of medical data is being done by medical expert. In terms of image interpretation by human expert, it is quite limited due to its subjectivity, the complexity of the image, extensive variations exist across different interpreters, and fatigue. After the success of deep learning in other real world application, it is also providing exciting solutions with good accuracy for medical imaging and is seen as a key method for future applications in health secotr. In this chapter, we discussed state of the art deep learning architecture and its optimization used for medical image segmentation and classification. In the last section, we have discussed the challenges deep learning based methods for medical imaging and open research issue.
Automatic cell image segmentation methods in connectomics produce merge and split errors, which require correction through proofreading. Previous research has identified the visual search for these errors as the bottleneck in interactive proofreading. To aid error correction, we develop two classifiers that automatically recommend candidate merges and splits to the user. These classifiers use a convolutional neural network (CNN) that has been trained with errors in automatic segmentations against expert-labeled ground truth. Our classifiers detect potentially-erroneous regions by considering a large context region around a segmentation boundary. Corrections can then be performed by a user with yes/no decisions, which reduces variation of information 7.5x faster than previous proofreading methods. We also present a fully-automatic mode that uses a probability threshold to make merge/split decisions. Extensive experiments using the automatic approach and comparing performance of novice and expert users demonstrate that our method performs favorably against state-of-the-art proofreading methods on different connectomics datasets.
The state-of-the-art method for automatically segmenting white matter bundles in diffusion-weighted MRI is tractography in conjunction with streamline cluster selection. This process involves long chains of processing steps which are not only computationally expensive but also complex to setup and tedious with respect to quality control. Direct bundle segmentation methods treat the task as a traditional image segmentation problem. While they so far did not deliver competitive results, they can potentially mitigate many of the mentioned issues. We present a novel supervised approach for direct tract segmentation that shows major performance gains. It builds upon a stacked U-Net architecture which is trained on manual bundle segmentations from Human Connectome Project subjects. We evaluate our approach \textit{in vivo} as well as \textit{in silico} using the ISMRM 2015 Tractography Challenge phantom dataset. We achieve human segmentation performance and a major performance gain over previous pipelines. We show how the learned spatial priors efficiently guide the segmentation even at lower image qualities with little quality loss.
We propose a novel label fusion technique as well as a crowdsourcing protocol to efficiently obtain accurate epithelial cell segmentations from non-expert crowd workers. Our label fusion technique simultaneously estimates the true segmentation, the performance levels of individual crowd workers, and an image segmentation model in the form of a pairwise Markov random field. We term our approach image-aware STAPLE (iaSTAPLE) since our image segmentation model seamlessly integrates into the well-known and widely used STAPLE approach. In an evaluation on a light microscopy dataset containing more than 5000 membrane labeled epithelial cells of a fly wing, we show that iaSTAPLE outperforms STAPLE in terms of segmentation accuracy as well as in terms of the accuracy of estimated crowd worker performance levels, and is able to correctly segment 99% of all cells when compared to expert segmentations. These results show that iaSTAPLE is a highly useful tool for crowd sourcing image segmentation.
In this paper, we develop a new weakly-supervised learning algorithm to learn to segment cancerous regions in histopathology images. Our work is under a multiple instance learning framework (MIL) with a new formulation, deep weak supervision (DWS); we also propose an effective way to introduce constraints to our neural networks to assist the learning process. The contributions of our algorithm are threefold: (1) We build an end-to-end learning system that segments cancerous regions with fully convolutional networks (FCN) in which image-to-image weakly-supervised learning is performed. (2) We develop a deep week supervision formulation to exploit multi-scale learning under weak supervision within fully convolutional networks. (3) Constraints about positive instances are introduced in our approach to effectively explore additional weakly-supervised information that is easy to obtain and enjoys a significant boost to the learning process. The proposed algorithm, abbreviated as DWS-MIL, is easy to implement and can be trained efficiently. Our system demonstrates state-of-the-art results on large-scale histopathology image datasets and can be applied to various applications in medical imaging beyond histopathology images such as MRI, CT, and ultrasound images.
Since 2006, deep learning (DL) has become a rapidly growing research direction, redefining state-of-the-art performances in a wide range of areas such as object recognition, image segmentation, speech recognition and machine translation. In modern manufacturing systems, data-driven machine health monitoring is gaining in popularity due to the widespread deployment of low-cost sensors and their connection to the Internet. Meanwhile, deep learning provides useful tools for processing and analyzing these big machinery data. The main purpose of this paper is to review and summarize the emerging research work of deep learning on machine health monitoring. After the brief introduction of deep learning techniques, the applications of deep learning in machine health monitoring systems are reviewed mainly from the following aspects: Auto-encoder (AE) and its variants, Restricted Boltzmann Machines and its variants including Deep Belief Network (DBN) and Deep Boltzmann Machines (DBM), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). Finally, some new trends of DL-based machine health monitoring methods are discussed.
This paper develops tests for inequality constraints of nonparametric regression functions. The test statistics involve a one-sided version of $L_p$-type functionals of kernel estimators $(1 \leq p < \infty)$. Drawing on the approach of Poissonization, this paper establishes that the tests are asymptotically distribution free, admitting asymptotic normal approximation. In particular, the tests using the standard normal critical values have asymptotically correct size and are consistent against general fixed alternatives. Furthermore, we establish conditions under which the tests have nontrivial local power against Pitman local alternatives. Some results from Monte Carlo simulations are presented.
Modern mobile devices have access to a wealth of data suitable for learning models, which in turn can greatly improve the user experience on the device. For example, language models can improve speech recognition and text entry, and image models can automatically select good photos. However, this rich data is often privacy sensitive, large in quantity, or both, which may preclude logging to the data center and training there using conventional approaches. We advocate an alternative that leaves the training data distributed on the mobile devices, and learns a shared model by aggregating locally-computed updates. We term this decentralized approach Federated Learning. We present a practical method for the federated learning of deep networks based on iterative model averaging, and conduct an extensive empirical evaluation, considering five different model architectures and four datasets. These experiments demonstrate the approach is robust to the unbalanced and non-IID data distributions that are a defining characteristic of this setting. Communication costs are the principal constraint, and we show a reduction in required communication rounds by 10-100x as compared to synchronized stochastic gradient descent.
Learning is a complex cognitive process that depends not only on an individual capability of knowledge absorption but it can be also influenced by various group interactions and by the structure of an academic curriculum. We have applied methods of statistical analyses and data mining (Principal Component Analysis and Maximal Spanning Tree) for anonymized students' scores at Faculty of Physics, Warsaw University of Technology. A slight negative linear correlation exists between mean and variance of course grades, i.e. courses with higher mean scores tend to possess a lower scores variance. There are courses playing a central role, e.g. their scores are highly correlated to other scores and they are in the centre of corresponding Maximal Spanning Trees. Other courses contribute significantly to students' score variance as well to the first principal component and they are responsible for differentiation of students' scores. Correlations of the first principal component to courses' mean scores and scores variance suggest that this component can be used for assigning ECTS points to a given course. The analyse is independent from declared curricula of considered courses. The proposed methodology is universal and can be applied for analysis of student's scores and academic curriculum at any faculty.
We model the phase oscillations of electrons in race-track microtrons by means of an area preserving map with a fixed point at the origin, which represents the synchronous trajectory of a reference particle in the beam. We study the nonlinear stability of the origin in terms of the synchronous phase -- the phase of the synchronous particle at the injection. We estimate the size and shape of the stability domain around the origin, whose main connected component is enclosed by the last rotational invariant curve. We describe the evolution of the stability domain as the synchronous phase varies. Besides, we approximate some rotational invariant curves by level sets of certain Hamiltonians. Finally, we clarify the role of the stable and unstable invariant curves of some hyperbolic (fixed or periodic) points.
Take a sequence of couples $(G_n,K_n)_n$, where $G_n$ is a group and $K_n$ is a sub-group of $G_n.$ Under some conditions, we are able to give a formula that shows the form of the structure coefficients that appear in the product of double-classes of $K_n$ in $G_n.$ We show how this can give us a similar result for the structure coefficients of the centers of group algebras. These formulas allow us to re-obtain the polynomiality property of the structure coefficients in the cases of the center of the symmetric group algebra and the Hecke algebra of the pair $(\mathcal{S}_{2n},\mathcal{B}_{n}).$ We also give a new polynomiality property for the structure coefficients of the center of the hyperoctahedral group algebra and the double-class algebra $\mathbb{C}[diag(\mathcal{S}_{n-1})\setminus \mathcal{S}_n\times \mathcal{S}^{opp}_{n-1}/ diag(\mathcal{S}_{n-1})].$
Let $\mathbf{G}$ be a reductive group defined over $\mathbb{Q}$ and let $\mathfrak{S}$ be a Siegel set in $\mathbf{G}(\mathbb{R})$. The Siegel property tells us that there are only finitely many $\gamma \in \mathbf{G}(\mathbb{Q})$ of bounded determinant and denominator for which the translate $\gamma.\mathfrak{S}$ intersects $\mathfrak{S}$. We prove a bound for the height of these $\gamma$ which is polynomial with respect to the determinant and denominator. The bound generalises a result of Habegger and Pila dealing with the case of $\mathbf{GL}_2$, and has applications to the Zilber--Pink conjecture on unlikely intersections in Shimura varieties. In addition we prove that if $\mathbf{H}$ is a subgroup of $\mathbf{G}$, then every Siegel set for $\mathbf{H}$ is contained in a finite union of $\mathbf{G}(\mathbb{Q})$-translates of a Siegel set for $\mathbf{G}$).
Quasi-power law ensembles are discussed from the perspective of nonextensive Tsallis distributions characterized by a nonextensive parameter $q$. A number of possible sources of such distributions are presented in more detail. It is further demonstrated that data suggest that nonextensive parameters deduced from Tsallis distributions functions $f\left(p_T\right)$, $q_1$, and from multiplicity distributions (connected with Tsallis entropy), $q_2$, are not identical and that they are connected via $q_1 + q_2 = 2$. It is also shown that Tsallis distributions can be obtained directly from Shannon information entropy, provided some special constraints are imposed. They are connected with the type of dynamical processes under consideration (additive or multiplicative). Finally, it is shown how a Tsallis distribution can accommodate the log-oscillating behavior apparently seen in some multiparticle data.
Let A be a commutative domain containing Z which is finitely generated as a Z-algebra, and let a,b,c be non-zero elements of A. It follows from work of Siegel, Mahler, Parry and Lang that the equation (*) ax+by=c has only finitely many solutions in elements x,y of the unit group A* of A, but the proof following from their arguments is ineffective. Using linear forms in logarithms estimates of Baker and Coates, in 1979 Gy\H{o}ry gave an effective proof of this finiteness result, in the special case that A is the ring of S-integers of an algebraic number field. Some years later, Gy\H{o}ry extended this to a restricted class of finitely generated domains A, containing transcendental elements. In the present paper, we give an effective finiteness proof for the number of solutions of (*) for arbitrary domains A finitely generated over Z. In fact, we give an explicit upper bound for the `sizes' of the solutions x,y, in terms of defining parameters for A,a,b,c. In our proof, we use already existing effective finiteness results for two variable S-unit equations over number fields due to Gy\H{o}ry and Yu and over function fields due to Mason, as well as an explicit specialization argument.
The notion of Lagrangian $H$-umbilical submanifolds was introduced by B. Y. Chen in 1997, and these submanifolds have appeared in several important problems in the study of Lagrangian submanifolds from the Riemannian geometric point of view. Recently, the author introduced the notion of tangentially biharmonic submanifolds, which are defined as submanifolds such that the bitension field of the inclusion map has vanishing tangential component. The normal bundle of a round hypersphere in $\mathbb{R}^n$ can be immersed as a tangentially biharmonic Lagrangian $H$-umbilical submanifold in $\mathbb{C}^n$. Motivated by this fact, we classify tangentially biharmonic Lagrangian $H$-umbilical submanifolds in complex space forms.
Let $Ham (M,\omega ) $ denote the Frechet Lie group of Hamiltonian symplectomorphisms of a monotone symplectic manifold $(M, \omega) $. Let $NFuk (M, \omega)$ be the $A _{\infty} $-nerve of the Fukaya category $Fuk (M, \omega)$, and let $(|\mathbb{S}|, NFuk (M, \omega))$ denote the $NFuk (M, \omega)$ component of the ``space of $\infty$-categories'' $|\mathbb{S}| $. Using Floer-Fukaya theory for a monotone $(M, \omega)$ we construct a natural up to homotopy classifying map \begin{equation*} BHam (M, \omega) \to (|\mathbb{S}|, NFuk (M, \omega)). \end{equation*} This verifies one sense of a conjecture of Teleman on existence of action of $Ham (M , \omega)$ on the Fukaya category of $(M, \omega ) $. This construction is very closely related to the theory of the Seidel homomorphism and the quantum characteristic classes of the author, and this map is intended to be the deepest expression of their underlying geometric theory. In part II the above map is shown to be nontrivial by an explicit calculation. In particular, we arrive at a new non-trivial ``quantum'' invariant of any smooth manifold, which motives the statement of a kind of ``quantum'' Novikov conjecture.
The U(1) gauge theory on a space with Lie type noncommutativity is constructed. The construction is based on the group of translation in Fourier space, which in contrast to space itself is commutative. In analogy with lattice gauge theory, the object playing the role of flux of field strength per plaquette, as well as the action, are constructed. It is observed that the theory, in comparison with ordinary U(1) gauge theory, has an extra gauge field component. This phenomena is reminiscent of similar ones in formulation of SU(N) gauge theory in space with canonical noncommutativity, and also appearance of gauge field component in discrete direction of Connes' construction of the Standard Model.
A monolayer of $MoS_{2}$ has a non-centrosymmetric crystal structure, with spin polarized bands. It is a two valley semiconductor with direct gap falling in the visible range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Its optical properties are of particular interest in relation to valleytronics and possible device applications. We study the longitudinal and the transverse Hall dynamical conductivity which is decomposed into charge, spin and valley contributions. Circular polarized light associated with each of the two valleys separately is considered and results are filtered according to spin polarization. Temperature can greatly change the spin admixture seen in the frequency window where they are not closely in balance.
Cache coherence protocols based on self-invalidation and self-downgrade have recently seen increased popularity due to their simplicity, potential performance efficiency, and low energy consumption. However, such protocols result in memory instruction reordering, thus causing extra program behaviors that are often not intended by the programmers. We propose a novel formal model that captures the semantics of programs running under such protocols, and features a set of fences that interact with the coherence layer. Using the model, we design an algorithm to analyze the reachability and check whether a program satisfies a given safety property with the current set of fences. We describe a method for insertion of optimal sets of fences that ensure correctness of the program under such protocols. The method relies on a counter-example guided fence insertion procedure. One feature of our method is that it can handle a variety of fences (with different costs). This diversity makes optimization more difficult since one has to optimize the total cost of the inserted fences, rather than just their number. To demonstrate the strength of our approach, we have implemented a prototype and run it on a wide range of examples and benchmarks. We have also, using simulation, evaluated the performance of the resulting fenced programs.
The total electronic Raman scattering spectrum, including the nonresonant, mixed and resonant components, is determined for the charge-density-wave (CDW) phase of the spinless Falicov-Kimball model at half filling within dynamical mean-field theory. Its frequency dependence is investigated for different values of the energy of the incident photons. The spectra reflect the different structures in the density of states and how they are modified by screening and resonance effects. The calculations are performed for the $B_{\rm 1g}$, $B_{\rm 2g}$ and $A_{\rm 1g}$ symmetries (which are typically examined in experiment). Our results for the resonance effects of the Raman spectra, found by tuning the energy of the incident photons, give information about the many-body charge dynamics of the CDW-ordered phase.
In a well generated triangulated category T, given a regular cardinal a, we consider the following problems: given a functor from the category of a-compact objects to abelian groups that preserves products of <a objects and takes exact triangles to exact sequences, is it the restriction of a representable functor in T? Is every natural transformation between two such restricted representable functors induced by a map between the representatives? If the answer to both questions is positive we say that T satisfies a-Adams representability. A classical result going back to Brown and Adams shows that the stable homotopy category satisfies Adams representability for the first infinite cardinal. For that cardinal, Adams representability is well understood thanks to the work of Christensen, Keller and Neeman. In this paper, we develop an obstruction theory to decide when T satisfies a-Adams representability. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions of homological nature, and we compute several examples. In particular, we show that there are rings satisfying a-Adams representability for all non-countable cardinals a and rings which do not satisfy a-Adams representability for any infinite cardinal a. Moreover, we exhibit rings for which the answer to both questions is no for infinite many cardinals. As a side result, we give an example of an infinite phantom map.
Germs of Goursat distributions can be classified according to a geometric coding called an RVT code. Jean (1996) and Mormul (2004) have shown that this coding carries precisely the same data as the small growth vector. Montgomery and Zhitomirskii (2010) have shown that such germs correspond to finite jets of Legendrian curve germs, and that the RVT coding corresponds to the classical invariant in the singularity theory of planar curves: the Puiseux characteristic. Here we derive a simple formula for the Puiseux characteristic of the curve corresponding to a Goursat germ with given small growth vector. The simplicity of our theorem (compared with the more complex algorithms previously known) suggests a deeper connection between singularity theory and the theory of nonholonomic distributions.
We prove an asymptotic for the number of additive triples of bijections $\{1,\dots,n\}\to\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$, that is, the number of pairs of bijections $\pi_1,\pi_2\colon \{1,\dots,n\}\to\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$ such that the pointwise sum $\pi_1+\pi_2$ is also a bijection. This problem is equivalent to counting the number of orthomorphisms or complete mappings of $\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$, to counting the number of arrangements of $n$ mutually nonattacking semiqueens on an $n\times n$ toroidal chessboard, and to counting the number of transversals in a cyclic Latin square. The method of proof is a version of the Hardy--Littlewood circle method from analytic number theory, adapted to the group $(\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z})^n$.
We propose a method for efficiently finding all parallel passages in a large corpus, even if the passages are not quite identical due to rephrasing and orthographic variation. The key ideas are the representation of each word in the corpus by its two most infrequent letters, finding matched pairs of strings of four or five words that differ by at most one word and then identifying clusters of such matched pairs. Using this method, over 4600 parallel pairs of passages were identified in the Babylonian Talmud, a Hebrew-Aramaic corpus of over 1.8 million words, in just over 30 seconds. Empirical comparisons on sample data indicate that the coverage obtained by our method is essentially the same as that obtained using slow exhaustive methods.
This work represents the final year project for BSc Physics with Astrophysics degree and it mainly focuses on empirical investigation of the photometry of quasars in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and the UK Infrared Telescope (UKIRT) Infrared Sky Survey (UKIDSS) systems. The studies include 5730 quasars matched from both surveys and examine UV/optical/near-IR properties of the population. The sample covers the redshift and absolute magnitude ranges 0.01 < z < 3 and -29.3 < M i < -13.8 and 17 per cent of the SDSS quasars have matching success to the UKIDSS data. The combination of SDSS ugriz with the JHK near-IR photometry from UKIDSS over large areas of the sky has enormous potential for advancing our understanding of quasar population, keeping in mind that these surveys have not reached their terminations.
We consider the interaction between passing to finite covers and ergodic properties of the straight-line flow on finite area translation surfaces with infinite topological type. Infinite type provides for a rich family of degree $d$ covers for any integer $d>1$. We give examples which demonstrate that passing to a finite cover can destroy ergodicity, but we also provide evidence that this phenomenon is rare. We define a natural notion of a random degree $d$ cover and show that, in many cases, ergodicity and unique ergodicity are preserved under passing to random covers. This work provides a new context for exploring the relationship between recurrence of the Teichm\"uller flow and ergodic properties of the straight-line flow.
Over the past few years it has been demonstrated that "coarse timesteppers" establish a link between traditional numerical analysis and microscopic/ stochastic simulation. The underlying assumption of the associated lift-run-restrict-estimate procedure is that macroscopic models exist and close in terms of a few governing moments of microscopically evolving distributions, but they are unavailable in closed form. This leads to a system identification based computational approach that sidesteps the necessity of deriving explicit closures. Two-level codes are constructed; the outer code performs macroscopic, continuum level numerical tasks, while the inner code estimates -through appropriately initialized bursts of microscopic simulation- the quantities required for continuum numerics. Such quantities include residuals, time derivatives, and the action of coarse slow Jacobians. We demonstrate how these coarse timesteppers can be applied to perform equation-free computations of a kinetic Monte Carlo simulation of E. coli chemotaxis. Coarse-grained contraction mappings, system level stability analysis as well as acceleration of the direct simulation, are enabled through this computational multiscale enabling technology.
Crystalline Fe3O4/NiO bilayers were grown on MgO(001) substrates using reactive molecular beam epitaxy to investigate their structural properties and their morphology. The film thickness either of the Fe3O4 film or of the NiO film has been varied to shed light on the relaxation of the bilayer system. The surface properties as studied by x-ray photo electron spectroscopy and low energy electron diffraction show clear evidence of stoichiometric well-ordered film surfaces. Based on the kinematic approach x-ray diffraction experiments were completely analyzed. As a result the NiO films grow pseudomorphic in the investigated thickness range (up to 34nm) while the Fe3O4 films relax continuously up to the thickness of 50nm. Although all diffraction data show well developed Laue fringes pointing to oxide films of very homogeneous thickness, the Fe3O4-NiO interface roughens continuously up to 1nm root-mean-square roughness with increasing NiO film thickness while the Fe3O4 surface is very smooth independent on the Fe3O4 film thickness. Finally, the Fe3O4-NiO interface spacing is similar to the interlayer spacing of the oxide films while the NiO-MgO interface is expanded.
We study the finite element formulation of general boundary conditions for incompressible flow problems. Distinguishing between the contributions from the inviscid and viscid parts of the equations, we use Nitsche's method to develop a discrete weighted weak formulation valid for all values of the viscosity parameter, including the limit case of the Euler equations. In order to control the discrete kinetic energy, additional consistent terms are introduced. We treat the limit case as a (degenerate) system of hyperbolic equations, using a balanced spectral decomposition of the flux Jacobian matrix, in analogy with compressible flows. Then, following the theory of Friedrich's systems, the natural characteristic boundary condition is generalized to the considered physical boundary conditions. Several numerical experiments, including standard benchmarks for viscous flows as well as inviscid flows are presented.
Large linear systems with sparse, non-symmetric matrices arise in the modeling of Markov chains or in the discretization of convection-diffusion problems. Due to their potential to solve sparse linear systems with an effort that is linear in the number of unknowns, algebraic multigrid (AMG) methods are of fundamental interest for such systems. For symmetric positive definite matrices, fundamental theoretical convergence results are established, and efficient AMG solvers have been developed. In contrast, for non-symmetric matrices, theoretical convergence results have been provided only recently. A property that is sufficient for convergence is that the matrix be an M-matrix. In this paper, we present how the simulation of incompressible fluid flows with particle methods leads to large linear systems with sparse, non-symmetric matrices. In each time step, the Poisson equation is approximated by meshfree finite differences. While traditional least squares approaches do not guarantee an M-matrix structure, an approach based on linear optimization yields optimally sparse M-matrices. For both types of discretization approaches, we investigate the performance of a classical AMG method, as well as an AMLI type method. While in the considered test problems, the M-matrix structure turns out not to be necessary for the convergence of AMG, problems can occur when it is violated. In addition, the matrices obtained by the linear optimization approach result in fast solution times due to their optimal sparsity.
We propose a novel method of finding principal components in multivariate data sets that lie on an embedded nonlinear Riemannian manifold within a higher-dimensional space. Our aim is to extend the geometric interpretation of PCA, while being able to capture non-geodesic modes of variation in the data. We introduce the concept of a principal sub-manifold, a manifold passing through a reference point, and at any point on the manifold extending in the direction of highest variation in the space spanned by the eigenvectors of the local tangent space PCA. Compared to recent work for the case where the sub-manifold is of dimension one Panaretos et al. (2014)--essentially a curve lying on the manifold attempting to capture one-dimensional variation--the current setting is much more general. The principal sub-manifold is therefore an extension of the principal flow, accommodating to capture higher dimensional variation in the data. We show the principal sub-manifold yields the ball spanned by the usual principal components in Euclidean space. By means of examples, we illustrate how to find, use and interpret a principal sub-manifold and we present an application in shape analysis.
The gauge formalism in Telepalallel Gravity provides an interesting viewpoint to describe interactions according to an anholonomic observes tetrad basis. The perturbed spacetime algebra with Weitzenb\"ock connection can be assimilated to a local complexification based on the SU(4) Yang--Mills theory,that we call hypercolour or, simply, colour. The formulation of the hypercolour dynamics is constructed by means of a translational gauge, as in the teleparallel gravity. In particular, this work explores small perturbations of a metric decomposition related to the Wilson line and the Kaluza--Klein metric, but obtaining electrodynamics in four dimensions. The spacetime coordinates are now matrices representing elements of the $\mathfrak{su}(4)$ Lie algebra. To make compatible the formulation of a coloured gravity with the Lorentz force and the Maxwell's equations, it is enough to define any energy potential origin as 0 in the event horizon, instead of the classic zero potential at infinity. Under the coloured gravity framework, standard electromagnetism can be obtained as a particular abelian case.
We study a natural variant of the implicational fragment of propositional logic. Its formulas are pairs of conjunctions of positive literals, related together by an implicational-like connective; the semantics of this sort of implication is defined in terms of a threshold on a conditional probability of the consequent, given the antecedent: we are dealing with what the data analysis community calls confidence of partial implications or association rules. Existing studies of redundancy among these partial implications have characterized so far only entailment from one premise and entailment from two premises, both in the stand-alone case and in the case of presence of additional classical implications (this is what we call "relative entailment"). By exploiting a previously noted alternative view of the entailment in terms of linear programming duality, we characterize exactly the cases of entailment from arbitrary numbers of premises, again both in the stand-alone case and in the case of presence of additional classical implications. As a result, we obtain decision algorithms of better complexity; additionally, for each potential case of entailment, we identify a critical confidence threshold and show that it is, actually, intrinsic to each set of premises and antecedent of the conclusion.
After the existence proof of the first remarkably stable simple choreographic motion-- the figure eight of the planar three-body problem by Chenciner and Montgomery in 2000, a great number of simple choreographic solutions have been discovered numerically but very few of them have rigorous existence proofs and none of them are stable. Most important to astronomy are stable periodic solutions which might actually be seen in some stellar system. A question for simple choreographic solutions on $n$-body problems naturally arises: Are there any other stable simple choreographic solutions except the figure eight? In this paper, we prove the existence of infinitely many simple choreographic solutions in the classical Newtonian 4-body problem by developing a new variational method with structural prescribed boundary conditions (SPBC). Surprisingly, a family of choreographic orbits of this type are all linearly stable. Among the many stable simple choreographic orbits, the most extraordinary one is the stable star pentagon choreographic solution. The star pentagon is assembled out of four pieces of curves which are obtained by minimizing the Lagrangian action functional over the SPBC. We also prove the existence of infinitely many double choreographic periodic solutions, infinitely many non-choreographic periodic solutions and uncountably many quasi-periodic solutions. Each type of periodic solutions have many stable solutions and possibly infinitely many stable solutions.
We demonstrate that the most probable state of a conserved system with a limited number of entities or molecules is the state where non-Gaussian and non-chi-square distributions govern. We have conducted a thought experiment using a specific setup. We have verified the mathematical derivation of the most probable state accurately predicts the results obtained by computer simulations. The derived distributions approach the Gaussian and the chi-square distributions as the number of entities approaches infinity. The derived distributions of the most probable state will have an important role in the fields of medical research where the number of entities in the system of interest is limited. Especially, the non-chi-square distribution can be interpreted by an asset distribution achieved after a repetitive game where an arbitrary portion of one's assets is transferred to another arbitrary entity among a number of entities with equal abilities.
Recently developed information communication technologies, particularly the Internet, have affected how we, both as individuals and as a society, create, store, and recall information. Internet also provides us with a great opportunity to study memory using transactional large scale data, in a quantitative framework similar to the practice in statistical physics. In this project, we make use of online data by analysing viewership statistics of Wikipedia articles on aircraft crashes. We study the relation between recent events and past events and particularly focus on understanding memory triggering patterns. We devise a quantitative model that explains the flow of viewership from a current event to past events based on similarity in time, geography, topic, and the hyperlink structure of Wikipedia articles. We show that on average the secondary flow of attention to past events generated by such remembering processes is larger than the primary attention flow to the current event. We are the first to report these cascading effects.
The GraphBLAS standard (GraphBlas.org) is being developed to bring the potential of matrix based graph algorithms to the broadest possible audience. Mathematically the Graph- BLAS defines a core set of matrix-based graph operations that can be used to implement a wide class of graph algorithms in a wide range of programming environments. This paper provides an introduction to the mathematics of the GraphBLAS. Graphs represent connections between vertices with edges. Matrices can represent a wide range of graphs using adjacency matrices or incidence matrices. Adjacency matrices are often easier to analyze while incidence matrices are often better for representing data. Fortunately, the two are easily connected by matrix mul- tiplication. A key feature of matrix mathematics is that a very small number of matrix operations can be used to manipulate a very wide range of graphs. This composability of small number of operations is the foundation of the GraphBLAS. A standard such as the GraphBLAS can only be effective if it has low performance overhead. Performance measurements of prototype GraphBLAS implementations indicate that the overhead is low.
It is well-known that the formation of amyloid fiber may cause invertible damage to cells, while the underlying mechanism has not been fully uncovered. In this paper, we construct a mathematical model, consisting of infinite ODEs in the form of mass-action equations together with two reaction-convection PDEs, and then simplify it to a system of 5 ODEs by using the maximum entropy principle. This model is based on four simple assumptions, one of which is that cell damage is raised by oligomers rather than mature fibrils. With the simplified model, the effects of nucleation and elongation, fragmentation, protein and seeds concentrations on amyloid formation and cell damage are extensively explored and compared with experiments. We hope that our results can provide a valuable insight into the processes of amyloid formation and cell damage thus raised.
The jeu de taquin process produced a standard Young tableau from a skew standard Young tableau by shifting its entries to the northwest. We generalize this process to posets: certain partial numberings of any poset are shifted upward. A poset is said to have the jeu de taquin property if the numberings resulting from this process do not depend upon certain choices made during the process. Young diagrams are the posets which underlie standard Young tableaux. These posets have the jeu de taquin property. d-Complete posets are posets which satisfy certain local structual conditions. They are mutual generalizations of Young diagrams, shifted Young diagrams, and rooted trees. We prove that all d-complete posets have the jeu de taquin property. The proof shows that each d-complete poset actually has the stronger "simultaneous" property; this may lead to an algebraic understanding of the main result. A partial converse is stated: "Non-overlapping" simultaneous posets are d-complete.
Eye gaze is an important non-verbal cue for human affect analysis. Recent gaze estimation work indicated that information from the full face region can benefit performance. Pushing this idea further, we propose an appearance-based method that, in contrast to a long-standing line of work in computer vision, only takes the full face image as input. Our method encodes the face image using a convolutional neural network with spatial weights applied on the feature maps to flexibly suppress or enhance information in different facial regions. Through extensive evaluation, we show that our full-face method significantly outperforms the state of the art for both 2D and 3D gaze estimation, achieving improvements of up to 14.3% on MPIIGaze and 27.7% on EYEDIAP for person-independent 3D gaze estimation. We further show that this improvement is consistent across different illumination conditions and gaze directions and particularly pronounced for the most challenging extreme head poses.
In this report we have analyzed a simple effective model for a description of magnetically ordered insulators. The Hamiltonian considered consists of the effective on-site interaction (U) and the intersite Ising-like magnetic exchange interaction (J) between nearest neighbors. For the first time the phase diagrams of this model have been determined within Monte Carlo simulation on 2D-square lattice. They have been compared with results obtained within variational approach, which treats the on-site term exactly and the intersite interactions within mean-field approximation. We show within both approaches that, depending on the values of interaction parameters and the electron concentration, the system can exhibit not only homogeneous phases: (anti-)ferromagnetic (F) and nonordered (NO), but also phase separated states (PS: F-NO).
Let $(M,g)$ be an $n-$dimensional compact Riemannian manifold. Let $h$ be a smooth function on $M$ and assume that it has a critical point $\xi\in M$ such that $h(\xi)=0$ and which satisfies a suitable flatness assumption. We are interested in finding conformal metrics $g_\lambda=u_\lambda^\frac4{n-2}g$, with $u>0$, whose scalar curvature is the prescribed function $h_\lambda=\lambda^2+h$, where $\lambda$ is a small parameter. In the positive case, i.e. when the scalar curvature $R_g$ is strictly positive, we find a family of bubbling metrics $g_\lambda$, where $u_\lambda$ blows-up at the point $\xi$ and approaches zero far from $\xi$ as $\lambda$ goes to zero. In the general case, if in addition we assume that there exists a non-degenerate conformal metric $g_0=u_0^\frac4{n-2}g$, with $u_0>0$, whose scalar curvature is equal to $h$, then there exists a bounded family of conformal metrics $g_{0,\lambda}=u_{0,\lambda}^\frac4{n-2}g$, with $u_{0,\lambda}>0$, which satisfies $u_{0,\lambda}\to u_0$ uniformly as $\lambda\to 0$. Here, we build a second family of bubbling metrics $g_\lambda$, where $u_\lambda$ blows-up at the point $\xi$ and approaches $u_0$ far from $\xi$ as $\lambda$ goes to zero. In particular, this shows that this problem admits more than one solution.
We study the so-called pinning model, which describes the behavior of a Markov chain interacting with a distinguished state. The interaction depends on an external source of randomness, called disorder, which can attract or repel the Markov chain path. We focus on the case when the disorder is heavy-tailed, with infinite mean, while the return times of the Markov chain have a stretched-exponential distribution. We prove that the set of times at which the Markov chain visits the distinguished state, suitably rescaled, converges in distribution to a limit set, which depends only on the disorder and on the interplay of the parameters. We also show that there exists a random threshold below which the limit set is trivial. As a byproduct of our techniques, we improve and complete a result of Auffinger and Louidor on the directed polymer in a random environment with heavy tailed disorder.
A scaling analysis is undertaken for the load balance in sliding friction in the hydrodynamic lubrication regime, with a particular emphasis on power-law shear-thinning typical of a structured liquid. It is argued that the shear-thinning regime is mechanically unstable if the power-law index n < 1/2, where n is the exponent that relates the shear stress to the shear rate. Consequently the Stribeck (friction) curve should be discontinuous, with possible hysteresis. Further analysis suggests that normal stress and flow transience (stress overshoot) do not destroy this basic picture, although they may provide stabilising mechanisms at higher shear rates. Extensional viscosity is also expected to be insignificant unless the Trouton ratio is large. A possible application to shear thickening in non-Brownian particulate suspensions is indicated.
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) bring together a global crowd of thousands of learners for several weeks or months. In theory, the openness and scale of MOOCs can promote iterative dialogue that facilitates group cognition and knowledge construction. Using data from two successive instances of a popular business strategy MOOC, we filter observed communication patterns to arrive at the "significant" interaction networks between learners and use complex network analysis to explore the vulnerability and information diffusion potential of the discussion forums. We find that different discussion topics and pedagogical practices promote varying levels of 1) "significant" peer-to-peer engagement, 2) participant inclusiveness in dialogue, and ultimately, 3) modularity, which impacts information diffusion to prevent a truly "global" exchange of knowledge and learning. These results indicate the structural limitations of large-scale crowd-based learning and highlight the different ways that learners in MOOCs leverage, and learn within, social contexts. We conclude by exploring how these insights may inspire new developments in online education.
The Khinchin-Kahane inequality is a fundamental result in the probability literature, with the most general version to date holding in Banach spaces. Motivated by modern settings and applications, we generalize this inequality to arbitrary metric groups which are abelian. If instead of abelian one assumes the group's metric to be a norm (i.e., $\mathbb{Z}_{>0}$-homogeneous), then we explain how the inequality improves to the same one as in Banach spaces. This occurs via a "transfer principle" that helps carry over questions involving normed metric groups and abelian normed semigroups into the Banach space framework. This principle also extends the notion of the expectation to random variables with values in arbitrary abelian normed metric semigroups $\mathscr{G}$. We provide additional applications, including studying weakly $\ell_p$ $\mathscr{G}$-valued sequences and related Rademacher series. On a related note, we also formulate a "general" Levy inequality, with two features: (i) It subsumes several known variants in the Banach space literature; and (ii) We show the inequality in the minimal framework required to state it: abelian metric groups.
In order to tackle the development of concurrent and distributed systems, the active object programming model provides a high-level abstraction to program concurrent behaviours. There exists already a variety of active object frameworks targeted at a large range of application domains: modelling, verification, efficient execution. However, among these frameworks, very few consider a multi-threaded execution of active objects. Introducing controlled parallelism within active objects enables overcoming some of their limitations. In this paper, we present a complete framework around the multi-active object programming model. We present it through ProActive, the Java library that offers multi-active objects, and through MultiASP, the programming language that allows the formalisation of our developments. We then show how to compile an active object language with cooperative multi-threading into multi-active objects. This paper also presents different use cases and the development support to illustrate the practical usability of our language. Formalisation of our work provides the programmer with guarantees on the behaviour of the multi-active object programming model and of the compiler.
The Kasner metrics are among the simplest solutions of the vacuum Einstein equations, and we use them here to examine the conformal method of finding solutions of the Einstein constraint equations. After describing the conformal method's construction of constant mean curvature (CMC) slices of Kasner spacetimes, we turn our attention to non-CMC slices of the smaller family of flat Kasner spacetimes. In this restricted setting we obtain a full description of the construction of certain $U^{n-1}$ symmetric slices, even in the far-from-CMC regime. Among the conformal data sets generating these slices we find that most data sets construct a single flat Kasner spacetime, but that there are also far-from-CMC data sets that construct one-parameter families of slices. Although these non-CMC families are analogues of well-known CMC one-parameter families, they differ in important ways. Most significantly, unlike the CMC case, the condition signaling the appearance of these non-CMC families is not naturally detected from the conformal data set itself. In light of this difficulty, we propose modifications of the conformal method that involve a conformally transforming mean curvature.
The formation of a single bubble from an orifice in a solid surface, submerged in an in- compressible, viscous Newtonian liquid, is simulated. The finite element method is used to capture the multiscale physics associated with the problem and to track the evolution of the free surface explicitly. The results are compared to a recent experimental analysis and then used to obtain the global characteristics of the process, the formation time and volume of the bubble, for a range of orifice radii; Ohnesorge numbers, which combine the material parameters of the liquid; and volumetric gas flow rates. These benchmark calculations, for the parameter space of interest, are then utilised to validate a selection of scaling laws found in the literature for two regimes of bubble formation, the regimes of low and high gas flow rates.
The Mahalanobis distance is commonly used in multi-object trackers for measurement-to-track association. Starting with the original definition of the Mahalanobis distance we review its use in association. Given that there is no principle in multi-object tracking that sets the Mahalanobis distance apart as a distinguished statistical distance we revisit the global association hypotheses of multiple hypothesis tracking as the most general association setting. Those association hypotheses induce a distance-like quantity for assignment which we refer to as association log-likelihood distance. We compare the ability of the Mahalanobis distance to the association log-likelihood distance to yield correct association relations in Monte-Carlo simulations. It turns out that on average the distance based on association log-likelihood performs better than the Mahalanobis distance, confirming that the maximization of global association hypotheses is a more fundamental approach to association than the minimization of a certain statistical distance measure.
We consider how the problem of determining normal forms for a specific class of nonholonomic systems leads to various interesting and concrete bridges between two apparently unrelated themes. Various ideas that traditionally pertain to the field of algebraic geometry emerge here organically in an attempt to elucidate the geometric structures underlying a large class of nonholonomic distributions known as Goursat constraints. Among our new results is a regularization theorem for curves stated and proved using tools exclusively from nonholonomic geometry, and a computation of topological invariants that answer a question on the global topology of our classifying space. Last but not least we present for the first time some experimental results connecting the discrete invariants of nonholonomic plane fields such as the RVT code and the Milnor number of complex plane algebraic curves.
Surface electric noise, i.e., the non-uniform distribution of charges and potentials on a surface, poses a great experimental challenge in modern precision force measurements. Such a challenge is encountered in a number of different experimental circumstances. The scientists employing atomic force microscopy (AFM) have long focused their efforts to understand the surface-related noise issues via variants of AFM techniques, such as Kelvin probe force microscopy or electric force microscopy. Recently, the physicists investigating quantum vacuum fluctuation phenomena between two closely-spaced objects have also begun to collect experimental evidence indicating a presence of surface effects neglected in their previous analyses. It now appears that the two seemingly disparate science communities are encountering effects rooted in the same surface phenomena. In this report, we suggest specific experimental tasks to be performed in the near future that are crucial not only for fostering needed collaborations between the two communities, but also for providing valuable data on the surface effects in order to draw the most realistic conclusion about the actual contribution of the Casimir force (or van der Waals force) between a pair of real materials.
The relevance of anisotropic interactions in colloidal systems has recently emerged in the context of the rational design of new soft materials. Patchy colloids of different shapes, patterns and functionalities are considered the new building blocks of a bottom-up approach toward the realization of selfassembled bulk materials with predefined properties. The ability to tune the interaction anisotropy will make it possible to recreate molecular structures at the nano- and microscales (a case with tremendous technological applications), as well as to generate new unconventional phases, both ordered and disordered. Recent theoretical studies suggest that the phase diagram of patchy colloids can be significantly altered by limiting the particle coordination number (that is, valence). New concepts such as empty liquids-liquid states with vanishing density-and equilibrium gels arrested networks of bonded particles, which do not require an underlying phase separation to form-have been formulated. Yet no experimental evidence of these predictions has been provided. Here we report the first observation of empty liquids and equilibrium gels in a complex colloidal clay, and support the experimental findings with numerical simulations.
The rapid development of signal processing on graphs provides a new perspective for processing large-scale data associated with irregular domains. In many practical applications, it is necessary to handle massive data sets through complex networks, in which most nodes have limited computing power. Designing efficient distributed algorithms is critical for this task. This paper focuses on the distributed reconstruction of a time-varying bandlimited graph signal based on observations sampled at a subset of selected nodes. A distributed least square reconstruction (DLSR) algorithm is proposed to recover the unknown signal iteratively, by allowing neighboring nodes to communicate with one another and make fast updates. DLSR uses a decay scheme to annihilate the out-of-band energy occurring in the reconstruction process, which is inevitably caused by the transmission delay in distributed systems. Proof of convergence and error bounds for DLSR are provided in this paper, suggesting that the algorithm is able to track time-varying graph signals and perfectly reconstruct time-invariant signals. The DLSR algorithm is numerically experimented with synthetic data and real-world sensor network data, which verifies its ability in tracking slowly time-varying graph signals.
In this paper we start a global study of the parameter space (dissipation, perturbation, frequency) of the dissipative spin-orbit problem in Celestial Mechanics with the aim of delimiting regions where the dynamics, or at least some of its important features, is determined. This is done via a study of the corresponding family of time $2\pi$-maps. In the same spirit as Chenciner in his 1895 article on bifurcations of elliptic fixed points, we are at first interested in delimiting regions where the normal hyperbolicity is sufficiently important to guarantee the persistence of an invariant attractive (resp. repulsive) circle under perturbation. As a tool, we use an analogue for diffeomorphisms in this family of R\"ussmann's translated curve theorem in analytic category.
The dissolution process of small (initial (equivalent) radius $R_0 < 1$ mm) long-chain alcohol (of various types) sessile droplets in water is studied, disentangling diffusive and convective contributions. The latter can arise for high solubilities of the alcohol, as the density of the alcohol-water mixture is then considerably less as that of pure water, giving rise to buoyancy driven convection. The convective flow around the droplets is measured, using micro-particle image velocimetry ($\mu$PIV) and the schlieren technique. When nondimensionalizing the system, we find a universal $Sh\sim Ra^{1/4}$ scaling relation for all alcohols (of different solubilities) and all droplets in the convective regime. Here Sh is the Sherwood number (dimensionless mass flux) and Ra the Rayleigh number (dimensionless density difference between clean and alcohol-saturated water). This scaling implies the scaling relation $\tau_c \sim R^{5/4}$ of the convective dissolution time $\tau_c$, which is found to agree with experimental data. We show that in the convective regime the plume Reynolds number (the dimensionless velocity) of the detaching alcohol-saturated plume follows $Re_p \sim Sc^{-1} Ra^{5/8}$, which is confirmed by the $\mu$PIV data. Here, Sc is the Schmidt number. The convective regime exists when $Ra > Ra_t$, where $Ra_t = 12$ is the transition Ra-number as extracted from the data. For $Ra < Ra_t$ and smaller, convective transport is progressively overtaken by diffusion and the above scaling relations break down.
A Short-Baseline Neutrino (SBN) physics program of three LAr-TPC detectors located along the Booster Neutrino Beam (BNB) at Fermilab is presented. This new SBN Program will deliver a rich and compelling physics opportunity, including the ability to resolve a class of experimental anomalies in neutrino physics and to perform the most sensitive search to date for sterile neutrinos at the eV mass-scale through both appearance and disappearance oscillation channels. Using data sets of 6.6e20 protons on target (P.O.T.) in the LAr1-ND and ICARUS T600 detectors plus 13.2e20 P.O.T. in the MicroBooNE detector, we estimate that a search for muon neutrino to electron neutrino appearance can be performed with ~5 sigma sensitivity for the LSND allowed (99% C.L.) parameter region. In this proposal for the SBN Program, we describe the physics analysis, the conceptual design of the LAr1-ND detector, the design and refurbishment of the T600 detector, the necessary infrastructure required to execute the program, and a possible reconfiguration of the BNB target and horn system to improve its performance for oscillation searches.
Laser-induced magnetization precession of a thick Pt/Co/Pt film with perpendicular interface anisotropy was studied using time resolved magneto-optical Kerr effect. Although the demagnetization energy dominates the interface anisotropy for the Co thickness considered, and the Co layer can be characterized by an effective easy-plane anisotropy, we found that an additional $\pi$ shift in the initial phase for the magnetization precession is needed to describe the measured data using only the effective easy-plane anisotropy. The additional $\pi$ phase is rendered by the dependence on the phonon temperature of the interface anisotropy, in contrast to the dependence on the electron temperature of the demagnetization energy. Our observation that the precession phase is affected by both the electron and phonon temperature warrants a detailed knowledge about the forms of anisotropy present in the system under investigation for a complete description of laser-induced magnetization precession.
We present an information-theoretic approach to lower bound the oracle complexity of nonsmooth black box convex optimization, unifying previous lower bounding techniques by identifying a combinatorial problem, namely string guessing, as a single source of hardness. As a measure of complexity we use distributional oracle complexity, which subsumes randomized oracle complexity as well as worst-case oracle complexity. We obtain strong lower bounds on distributional oracle complexity for the box $[-1,1]^n$, as well as for the $L^p$-ball for $p \geq 1$ (for both low-scale and large-scale regimes), matching worst-case upper bounds, and hence we close the gap between distributional complexity, and in particular, randomized complexity, and worst-case complexity. Furthermore, the bounds remain essentially the same for high-probability and bounded-error oracle complexity, and even for combination of the two, i.e., bounded-error high-probability oracle complexity. This considerably extends the applicability of known bounds.
We introduce a new Gentzen-style framework of grafted hypersequents that combines the formalism of nested sequents with that of hypersequents. To illustrate the potential of the framework, we present novel calculi for the modal logics $\mathsf{K5}$ and $\mathsf{KD5}$, as well as for extensions of the modal logics $\mathsf{K}$ and $\mathsf{KD}$ with the axiom for shift reflexivity. The latter of these extensions is also known as $\mathsf{SDL}^+$ in the context of deontic logic. All our calculi enjoy syntactic cut elimination and can be used in backwards proof search procedures of optimal complexity. The tableaufication of the calculi for $\mathsf{K5}$ and $\mathsf{KD5}$ yields simplified prefixed tableau calculi for these logic reminiscent of the simplified tableau system for $\mathsf{S5}$, which might be of independent interest.
In this paper, we have studied $F(R,T)$ gravity as an arbitrary function of curvature and torsion scalars in Friedmann--Lema\^{\i}tre--Robertson--Walker (FLRW) background. Then, we have considered interacting model between $F(R,T)$ gravity and modified Chaplygin gas. The novelty of this model is that the Universe includes both cases curvature and torsion, and one dominated by a Chaplygin gas. In order to calculate cosmological solutions, we obtained Friedmann equations and also equation of state (EoS) parameter of dark energy. By employing interacting model we considered the total energy density and the total pressure of Universe as the combination of components of dark energy and Chaplygin gas. Subsequently, we reconstructed the model by an origin of a scalar field entitled quintessence model with a field potential. The field potential has been calculated in terms of free parameters of $F(R,T)$ gravity and modified Chaplygin gas. In what follows, we used a parametrization, and the cosmological parameters have been written in terms of redshift $z$. Next, we plotted cosmological parameters with respect to three variable of cosmic time, redshift $z$ and $e$-folding number $N=ln(a)$, and the figures showed us an accelerated expansion of Universe. Also, we have described the scenario in three status early time, late time and future time by $e$-folding number. Finally, the stability of scenario has been investigated by a useful function named sound speed, and the graph of sound speed versus $e$-folding number has been showed us that there is the stability in late time.
We show a setup for characterising the efficiency of a single-photon-detector absolutely and with a precision better of 1%. Since the setup does not rely on calibrated devices and can be implemented with standard-optic components, it can be realised in any laboratory. Our approach is based on an Erbium-Doped-Fiber-Amplifier (EDFA) radiometer as a primary measurement standard for optical power, and on an ultra-stable source of spontaneous emission. As a proof of principle, we characterise the efficiency of an InGaAs/InP single-photon detector. We verified the correctness of the characterisation with independent measurements. In particular, the measurement of the optical power made with the EDFA radiometer has been compared to that of the Swiss Federal Office of Metrology using a transfer power meter. Our approach is suitable for frequent characterisations of high-efficient single-photon detectors.
Multiple myeloma (MM), a plasma cell cancer, is associated with many health challenges, including damage to the kidney by tubulointerstitial fibrosis. We develop a mathematical model which captures the qualitative behavior of the cell and protein populations involved. Specifically, we model the interaction between cells in the proximal tubule of the kidney, free light chains, renal fibroblasts, and myeloma cells. We analyze the model for steady-state solutions to find a mathematically and biologically relevant stable steady-state solution. This foundational model provides a representation of dynamics between key populations in tubulointerstitial fibrosis that demonstrates how these populations interact to affect patient prognosis in patients with MM and renal impairment.
We study a randomized algorithm for graph domination, by which, according to a uniformly chosen permutation, vertices are revealed and added to the dominating set if not already dominated. We determine the expected size of the dominating set produced by the algorithm for the path graph $P_n$ and use this to derive the expected size for some related families of graphs. We then provide a much-refined analysis of the worst and best cases of this algorithm on $P_n$ and enumerate the permutations for which the algorithm has the worst-possible performance and best-possible performance. The case of dominating the path graph has connections to previous work of Bouwer and Star, and of Gessel on greedily coloring the path.
We numerically demonstrate the formation of carrier field shocks in various dispersive media for a wide variety of input conditions using two different electric field propagation models. In addition, an investigation of the impact of numerous physical effects on carrier wave shock is performed. It is shown that in many cases a field shock is essentially unavoidable and therefore extremely important in the propagation of intense long wavelength pulses in weakly dispersive nonlinear media such as noble gases, air, and single-crystal diamond. The results presented here are expected to have a significant impact in the field of ultrashort nonlinear optics, attosecond pulse generation, and wavepacket synthesis where the use of mid-IR wavelengths is becoming increasingly more important.
In 1989, Godreche and Luck introduced the concept of local mixtures of primitive substitution rules along the example of the well-known Fibonacci substitution and foreshadowed heuristic results on the topological entropy and the spectral type of the diffraction measure of associated point sets. In this contribution, we present a generalisation of this concept by regarding the so-called 'noble means families', each consisting of finitely many primitive substitution rules that individually all define the same two-sided discrete dynamical hull. We report about results in the randomised case on topological entropy, ergodicity of the two-sided discrete hull, and the spectral type of the diffraction measure of related point sets.
The aim of this paper is twofold. First, we study eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the adjacency matrix of a bond percolation graph when the base graph is finite and well approximated locally by an infinite regular graph. We relate quantitatively the empirical measure of the eigenvalues and the delocalization of the eigenvectors to the spectrum of the adjacency operator of the percolation on the infinite graph. Secondly, we prove that percolation on an infinite regular tree with degree at least $3$ preserves the existence of an absolutely continuous spectrum if the removal probability is small enough. These two results are notably relevant for bond percolation on a uniformly sampled regular graph or a Cayley graph with large girth.
Vertical stacking of two-dimensional (2D) crystals, such as graphene and hexagonal boron nitride, has recently lead to a new class of materials known as van der Waals heterostructures (vdWHs) with unique and highly tunable electronic properties. Abinitio calculations should in principle provide a powerful tool for modeling and guiding the design of vdWHs, but in their traditional, form such calculations are only feasible for commensurable structures with a few layers. Here we show that the dielectric properties of realistic, incommensurable vdWHs comprising hundreds of layers can be calculated with ab-initio accuracy using a multi-scale approach where the dielectric functions of the individual layers (the dielectric building blocks) are coupled simply via their long-range Coulomb interaction. We use the method to illustrate the 2D- 3D dielectric transition in multi-layer MoS2 crystals, the hybridization of quantum plasmons in large graphene/hBN heterostructures, and to demonstrate the intricate effect of substrate screening on the non-Rydberg exciton series in supported WS2.
Let $A$ be a subset of positive relative upper density of $\PP^d$, the $d$-tuples of primes. We prove that $A$ contains an affine copy of any finite set $F\subs\Z^d$, which provides a natural multi-dimensional extension of the theorem of Green and Tao on the existence of long arithmetic progressions in the primes. The proof uses the hypergraph approach by assigning a pseudo-random weight system to the pattern $F$ on a $d+1$-partite hypergraph; a novel feature being that the hypergraph is no longer uniform with weights attached to lower dimensional edges. Then, instead of using a transference principle, we proceed by extending the proof of the so-called hypergraph removal lemma to our settings, relying only on the linear forms condition of Green and Tao.
Let $A$ be the product of an abelian variety and a torus defined over a number field $K$. Fix some prime number $\ell$. If $\alpha \in A(K)$ is a point of infinite order, we consider the set of primes $\mathfrak p$ of $K$ such that the reduction $(\alpha \bmod \mathfrak p)$ is well-defined and has order coprime to $\ell$. This set admits a natural density. By refining the method of R.~Jones and J.~Rouse (2010), we can express the density as an $\ell$-adic integral without requiring any assumption. We also prove that the density is always a rational number whose denominator (up to powers of $\ell$) is uniformly bounded in a very strong sense. For elliptic curves, we describe a strategy for computing the density which covers every possible case.
In the early 1970's Eisenberg and Hedlund investigated relationships between expansivity and spectrum of operators on Banach spaces. In this paper we establish relationships between notions of expansivity and hypercyclicity, supercyclicity, Li-Yorke chaos and shadowing. In the case that the Banach space is $c_0$ or $\ell_p$ ($1 \leq p < \infty$), we give complete characterizations of weighted shifts which satisfy various notions of expansivity. We also establish new relationships between notions of expansivity and spectrum. Moreover, we study various notions of shadowing for operators on Banach spaces. In particular, we solve a basic problem in linear dynamics by proving the existence of nonhyperbolic invertible operators with the shadowing property. This also contrasts with the expected results for nonlinear dynamics on compact manifolds, illuminating the richness of dynamics of infinite dimensional linear operators.
It has been shown recently that relativistic distortions generate a dipolar modulation in the two-point correlation function of galaxies. To measure this relativistic dipole it is necessary to cross-correlate different populations of galaxies with for example different luminosities or colours. In this paper, we construct an optimal estimator to measure the dipole with multiple populations. We show that this estimator increases the signal-to-noise of the dipole by up to 35 percent. Using 6 populations of galaxies, in a survey with halos and number densities similar to those of the millennium simulation, we forecast a cumulative signal-to-noise of 4.4. For the main galaxy sample of SDSS at low redshift z<0.2 our optimal estimator predicts a cumulative signal-to-noise of 2.4. Finally we forecast a cumulative signal-to-noise of 7.4 in the upcoming DESI survey. These forecasts indicate that with the appropriate choice of estimator the relativistic dipole should be detectable in current and future surveys.
In the context of protomodular categories, several additional conditions have been considered in order to obtain a closer group-like behavior. Among them are locally algebraic cartesian closedness and algebraic coherence. The recent notion of S-protomodular category, whose main examples are the category of monoids and, more generally, categories of monoids with operations and Jo\'{o}nsson-Tarski varieties, raises a similar question: how to get a description of S-protomodular categories with a strong monoid-like behavior. In this paper we consider relative versions of the conditions mentioned above, in order to exhibit the parallelism with the "absolute" protomodular context and to obtain a hierarchy among S-protomodular categories.
Coupling the Maxwell tensor to the Riemann-Christoffel curvature tensor is shown to lead to a geometricized theory of electrodynamics. While this geometricized theory leads directly to the classical Maxwell equations, it also extends their interpretation by giving charge density and mass density, and the four-velocity that describes their motion geometric definitions. These geometric definitions are reminiscent of General Relativity's interpretation of mass in terms of the scalar curvature R and hint at the emergence of gravity. The gravitational theory that does emerge is shown to be equivalent to Einstein's General Relativity augmented by an energy-momentum tensor term that mimics the properties of dark matter and/or dark energy. In summary, the proposed geometrization of the Maxwell tensor puts both electromagnetic and gravitational phenomena on an equal footing with both being tied to the curvature of space-time. Using specific solutions to the proposed theory, the unification brought to electromagnetic and gravitational phenomena, as well as the relationship of those solutions to the corresponding solutions of the classical Maxwell and Einstein field equations are compared.
The Medusa algorithm takes as input two postcritically finite quadratic polynomials and outputs the quadratic rational map which is the mating of the two polynomials (if it exists). Specifically, the output is a sequence of approximations for the parameters of the rational map, as well as an image of its Julia set. Whether these approximations converge is answered using Thurston's topological characterization of rational maps. This algorithm was designed by John Hamal Hubbard, and implemented in 1998 by Christian Henriksen and REU students David Farris, and Kuon Ju Liu. In this paper we describe the algorithm and its implementation, discuss some output from the program (including many pictures) and related questions. Specifically, we include images and a discussion for some shared matings, Lattes examples, and tuning sequences of matings.
The relevance and importance of contextualizing data analytics is described. Qualitative characteristics might form the context of quantitative analysis. Topics that are at issue include: contrast, baselining, secondary data sources, supplementary data sources, dynamic and heterogeneous data. In geometric data analysis, especially with the Correspondence Analysis platform, various case studies are both experimented with, and are reviewed. In such aspects as paradigms followed, and technical implementation, implicitly and explicitly, an important point made is the major relevance of such work for both burgeoning analytical needs and for new analytical areas including Big Data analytics, and so on. For the general reader, it is aimed to display and describe, first of all, the analytical outcomes that are subject to analysis here, and then proceed to detail the more quantitative outcomes that fully support the analytics carried out.
We consider the problem of finding positive solutions of the problem $\Delta u - \lambda u +u^5 = 0$ in a bounded, smooth domain $\Omega$ in $\mathbb{R}^3$, under zero Neumann boundary conditions. Here $\lambda$ is a positive number. We analyze the role of Green's function of $-\Delta +\lambda$ in the presence of solutions exhibiting single bubbling behavior at one point of the domain when $\lambda$ is regarded as a parameter. As a special case of our results, we find and characterize a positive value $\lambda_*$ such that if $\lambda-\lambda^*>0$ is sufficiently small, then this problem is solvable by a solution $u_\lambda$ which blows-up by bubbling at a certain interior point of $\Omega$ as $\lambda \downarrow \lambda_*$.
We present a semi-analytical model to simulate bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) spectra of a rough slab layer containing impurities. This model has been optimized for fast computation in order to analyze hyperspectral data. We designed it for planetary surfaces ices studies but it could be used for other purposes. It estimates the bidirectional reflectance of a rough slab of material containing inclusions, overlaying an optically thick media (semi-infinite media or stratified media, for instance granular material). The inclusions are supposed to be close to spherical, and of any type of other material than the ice matrix. It can be any type of other ice, mineral or even bubbles, defined by their optical constants. We suppose a low roughness and we consider the geometrical optics conditions. This model is thus applicable for inclusions larger than the considered wavelength. The scattering on the inclusions is assumed to be isotropic. This model has a fast computation implementation and thus is suitable for high resolution hyperspectral data analysis.
Graded posets frequently arise throughout combinatorics, where it is natural to try to count the number of elements of a fixed rank. These counting problems are often $\#\textbf{P}$-complete, so we consider approximation algorithms for counting and uniform sampling. We show that for certain classes of posets, biased Markov chains that walk along edges of their Hasse diagrams allow us to approximately generate samples with any fixed rank in expected polynomial time. Our arguments do not rely on the typical proofs of log-concavity, which are used to construct a stationary distribution with a specific mode in order to give a lower bound on the probability of outputting an element of the desired rank. Instead, we infer this directly from bounds on the mixing time of the chains through a method we call $\textit{balanced bias}$. A noteworthy application of our method is sampling restricted classes of integer partitions of $n$. We give the first provably efficient Markov chain algorithm to uniformly sample integer partitions of $n$ from general restricted classes. Several observations allow us to improve the efficiency of this chain to require $O(n^{1/2}\log(n))$ space, and for unrestricted integer partitions, expected $O(n^{9/4})$ time. Related applications include sampling permutations with a fixed number of inversions and lozenge tilings on the triangular lattice with a fixed average height.
Differential privacy is a definition of "privacy'" for algorithms that analyze and publish information about statistical databases. It is often claimed that differential privacy provides guarantees against adversaries with arbitrary side information. In this paper, we provide a precise formulation of these guarantees in terms of the inferences drawn by a Bayesian adversary. We show that this formulation is satisfied by both "vanilla" differential privacy as well as a relaxation known as (epsilon,delta)-differential privacy. Our formulation follows the ideas originally due to Dwork and McSherry [Dwork 2006]. This paper is, to our knowledge, the first place such a formulation appears explicitly. The analysis of the relaxed definition is new to this paper, and provides some concrete guidance for setting parameters when using (epsilon,delta)-differential privacy.
We propose to combine semantic data and registration algorithms to solve various image processing problems such as denoising, super-resolution and color-correction. It is shown how such new techniques can achieve significant quality enhancement, both visually and quantitatively, in the case of facial image enhancement. Our model assumes prior high quality data of the person to be processed, but no knowledge of the degradation model. We try to overcome the classical processing limits by using semantically-aware patches, with adaptive size and location regions of coherent structure and context, as building blocks. The method is demonstrated on the problem of cellular photography enhancement of dark facial images for different identities, expressions and poses.
An information theoretic approach to bounds in superconformal field theories is proposed. It is proved that the supersymmetric R\'enyi entropy $\bar S_\alpha$ is a monotonically decreasing function of $\alpha$ and $(\alpha-1)\bar S_\alpha$ is a concave function of $\alpha$. Under the assumption that the thermal entropy associated with the "replica trick" time circle is bounded from below by the charge at $\alpha\to\infty$, it is further proved that both ${\alpha-1\over \alpha}\bar S_\alpha$ and $(\alpha-1)\bar S_\alpha$ monotonically increase as functions of $\alpha$. Because $\bar S_\alpha$ enjoys universal relations with the Weyl anomaly coefficients in even-dimensional superconformal field theories, one therefore obtains a set of bounds on these coefficients by imposing the inequalities of $\bar S_\alpha$. Some of the bounds coincide with Hofman-Maldacena bounds and the others are new. We also check the inequalities for examples in odd-dimensions.
In this paper, after reviewing the main points of image encryption and threshold function, we introduce the methods of chaotic image encryption based on pseudorandom bit padding that the bits be generated by the novel generalized threshold function (segmentation and self-similarity) methods. These methods decrease periodic effect of the ergodic dynamical systems in randomness of the chaotic image encryption. The essential idea of this paper is that given threshold functions of the ergodic dynamical systems. To evaluate the security of the cipher image of this scheme, the key space analysis, the correlation of two adjacent pixels and differential attack were performed. This scheme tries to improve the problem of failure of encryption such as small key space and level of security.
The splitting processes of bremsstrahlung and pair production in a medium are coherent over large distances in the very high energy limit, which leads to a suppression known as the Landau-Pomeranchuk-Migdal (LPM) effect. In this paper, we continue analysis of the case when the coherence lengths of two consecutive splitting processes overlap (which is important for understanding corrections to standard treatments of the LPM effect in QCD), avoiding soft-gluon approximations. In particular, this paper analyzes the subtle problem of how to precisely separate overlapping double splitting (e.g.\ overlapping double bremsstrahlung) from the case of consecutive, independent bremsstrahlung (which is the case that would be implemented in a Monte Carlo simulation based solely on single splitting rates). As an example of the method, we consider the rate of real double gluon bremsstrahlung from an initial gluon with various simplifying assumptions (thick media; $\hat q$ approximation; large $N_c$; and neglect for the moment of processes involving 4-gluon vertices) and explicitly compute the correction $\Delta\,d\Gamma/dx\,dy$ due to overlapping formation times.
. We focused on the interaction between two ferromagnetic cobalt layers through a non-magnetic titanium layer. The magnetic properties of the structure were characterized by ferromagnetic resonance technique (FMR). The data were collected as a function of non-magnetic titanium layer thickness. Co/Ti multilayer (Ti (50 {\AA})/Co(45 {\AA})/Ti(2-40 {\AA})/Co(40 {\AA})/Ti(100 {\AA}))films were grown onto naturally oxidized p-type single crystal Si (100) substrate at UHV condition with magnetron sputtering system at room temperature. The thickness of Ti spacer layer ranges from 2 to 40 {\AA} with 2 {\AA} steps. We did not observe usual optic and acoustic modes; instead we had two broad overlapped peaks for the films ranged from 6 {\AA} to 40 {\AA}. One interesting result was the high anisotropic resonance field values for these films. Exchange coupling between ferromagnetic layers causes shift on resonance field values but these shifts in our samples were much larger than expected. This large anisotropic behavior is not clear at the moment. Our theoretical model was not able to determine a value for the exchange coupling parameter. One reason can be the close thickness values for Co sublayers. The other reason can be the Ti non-magnetic layer. If titanium did not grow layer by layer on cobalt, the cobalt ferromagnetic layers may behave as a single layer. As a result one cannot observe exchange interaction between ferromagnetic layers through non-magnetic spacer.
Monte Carlo simulations of mono-- and polydisperse two--dimensional crystals are reported. The particles in the studied system, interacting through hard--core repulsive Yukawa potential, form a solid phase of hexagonal lattice. The elastic properties of crystalline Yukawa systems are determined in the $NpT$ ensemble with variable shape of the periodic box. Effects of the Debye screening length ($\kappa^{-1}$), contact value of the potential ($\epsilon$), and the size polydispersity of particles on elastic properties of the system are studied. The simulations show that the polydispersity of particles strongly influences the elastic properties of the studied system, especially on the shear modulus. It is also found that the elastic moduli increase with density and their growth rate depends on the screening length. Shorter screening length leads to faster increase of elastic moduli with density and decrease of the Poisson's ratio. In contrast to its three-dimensional version, the studied system is non-auxetic, i.e. shows positive Poisson's ratio.
We extend the Wigner-Weyl-Moyal phase-space formulation of quantum mechanics to general curved configuration spaces. The underlying phase space is based on the chosen coordinates of the manifold and their canonically conjugate momenta. The resulting Wigner function displays the axioms of a quasiprobability distribution, and any Weyl-ordered operator gets associated with the corresponding phase-space function, even in the absence of continuous symmetries. The corresponding quantum Liouville equation reduces to the classical curved space Liouville equation in the semiclassical limit. We demonstrate the formalism for a point particle moving on two-dimensional manifolds, such as a paraboloid or the surface of a sphere. The latter clarifies the treatment of compact coordinate spaces as well as the relation of the presented phase-space representation to symmetry groups of the configuration space.
In this article, we derive a new stepsize adaptation for the normalized least mean square algorithm (NLMS) by describing the task of linear acoustic echo cancellation from a Bayesian network perspective. Similar to the well-known Kalman filter equations, we model the acoustic wave propagation from the loudspeaker to the microphone by a latent state vector and define a linear observation equation (to model the relation between the state vector and the observation) as well as a linear process equation (to model the temporal progress of the state vector). Based on additional assumptions on the statistics of the random variables in observation and process equation, we apply the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm to derive an NLMS-like filter adaptation. By exploiting the conditional independence rules for Bayesian networks, we reveal that the resulting EM-NLMS algorithm has a stepsize update equivalent to the optimal-stepsize calculation proposed by Yamamoto and Kitayama in 1982, which has been adopted in many textbooks. As main difference, the instantaneous stepsize value is estimated in the M step of the EM algorithm (instead of being approximated by artificially extending the acoustic echo path). The EM-NLMS algorithm is experimentally verified for synthesized scenarios with both, white noise and male speech as input signal.
While our natural intuition suggests us that we live in 3D space evolving in time, modern physics presents fundamentally different picture: 4D spacetime, Einstein's block universe, in which we travel in thermodynamically emphasized direction: arrow of time. Arguments for such nonintuitive and nonlocal living in kind of "4D jello" come among others from: Lagrangian mechanics we use from QFT to GR saying that history between fixed past and future situation is the one optimizing action, special relativity saying that different velocity observers have different own time directions, general relativity deforming shape of the entire spacetime up to switching time and space below the black hole event horizon, or the CPT theorem concluding fundamental symmetry between past and future for example in the Feynman-Stueckelberg interpretation of antiparticles as propagating back in time. Accepting this nonintuitive living in 4D spacetime: with present moment being in equilibrium between past and future - minimizing tension as action of Lagrangian, leads to crucial surprising differences from intuitive "evolving 3D" picture - allowing to conclude Bell inequalities, violated by the real physics. Specifically, particle in spacetime becomes own trajectory: 1D submanifold of 4D, making that statistical physics should consider ensembles like Boltzmann distribution among entire paths (like in Ising model), what leads to quantum behavior as we know from Feynman's Euclidean path integrals or similar Maximal Entropy Random Walk (MERW).
Wisely utilizing the internal and external learning methods is a new challenge in super-resolution problem. To address this issue, we analyze the attributes of two methodologies and find two observations of their recovered details: 1) they are complementary in both feature space and image plane, 2) they distribute sparsely in the spatial space. These inspire us to propose a low-rank solution which effectively integrates two learning methods and then achieves a superior result. To fit this solution, the internal learning method and the external learning method are tailored to produce multiple preliminary results. Our theoretical analysis and experiment prove that the proposed low-rank solution does not require massive inputs to guarantee the performance, and thereby simplifying the design of two learning methods for the solution. Intensive experiments show the proposed solution improves the single learning method in both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Surprisingly, it shows more superior capability on noisy images and outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
Suppose we have a Nikishin system of $p$ measures with the $k$th generating measure of the Nikishin system supported on an interval $\Delta_k\subset\er$ with $\Delta_k\cap\Delta_{k+1}=\emptyset$ for all $k$. It is well known that the corresponding staircase sequence of multiple orthogonal polynomials satisfies a $(p+2)$-term recurrence relation whose recurrence coefficients, under appropriate assumptions on the generating measures, have periodic limits of period $p$. (The limit values depend only on the positions of the intervals $\Delta_k$.) Taking these periodic limit values as the coefficients of a new $(p+2)$-term recurrence relation, we construct a canonical sequence of monic polynomials $\{P_{n}\}_{n=0}^{\infty}$, the so-called \emph{Chebyshev-Nikishin polynomials}. We show that the polynomials $P_{n}$ themselves form a sequence of multiple orthogonal polynomials with respect to some Nikishin system of measures, with the $k$th generating measure being absolutely continuous on $\Delta_{k}$. In this way we generalize a result of the third author and Rocha \cite{LopRoc} for the case $p=2$. The proof uses the connection with block Toeplitz matrices, and with a certain Riemann surface of genus zero. We also obtain strong asymptotics and an exact Widom-type formula for the second kind functions of the Nikishin system for $\{P_{n}\}_{n=0}^{\infty}$.
Given an arbitrary non-zero simplicial cycle and a generic vector coloring of its vertices, there is a way to produce a graded Poincare duality algebra associated with these data. The procedure relies on the theory of volume polynomials and multi-fans. This construction includes many important examples, such as cohomology of toric varieties and quasitoric manifolds, and Gorenstein algebras of triangulated homology manifolds, introduced by Novik and Swartz. In all these examples the dimensions of graded components of such duality algebras do not depend on the vector coloring. It was conjectured that the same holds for any simplicial cycle. We disprove this conjecture by showing that the colors of singular points of the cycle may affect the dimensions. However, the colors of smooth points are irrelevant. By using bistellar moves we show that the number of different dimension vectors arising on a given 3-dimensional pseudomanifold with isolated singularities is a topological invariant. This invariant is trivial on manifolds, but nontrivial in general.
In this paper, we study an initial boundary value problem of the Cahn-Hilliard-Darcy system with a non-autonomous mass source term $S$ that models tumor growth. We first prove the existence of global weak solutions as well as the existence of unique local strong solutions in both 2D and 3D. Then we investigate the qualitative behavior of solutions in details when the spatial dimension is two. More precisely, we prove that the strong solution exists globally and it defines a closed dynamical process. Then we establish the existence of a minimal pullback attractor for translated bounded mass source $S$. Finally, when $S$ is assumed to be asymptotically autonomous, we demonstrate that any global weak/strong solution converges to a single steady state as $t\to+\infty$. An estimate on the convergence rate is also given.
Topological defects are interfaces joining two conformal field theories, for which the energy momentum tensor is continuous across the interface. A class of the topological defects is provided by the interfaces separating two bulk systems each described by its own Lagrangian, where the two descriptions are related by a discrete symmetry. In this paper we elaborate on the cases in which the discrete symmetry is a bosonic or a fermionic T- duality. We review how the equations of motion imposed by the defect encode the general bosonic T- duality transformations for toroidal compactifications. We generalize this analysis in some detail to the case of topological defects allowed in coset CFTs, in particular to those cosets where the gauged group is either an axial or vector U(1). This is discussed in both the operator and Lagrangian approaches. We proceed to construct a defect encoding a fermionic T-duality. We show that the fermionic T-duality is implemented by the Super-Poincar\'{e} line bundle. The observation that the exponent of the gauge invariant flux on a defect is a kernel of the Fourier-Mukai transform of the Ramond-Ramond fields, is generalized to a fermionic T-duality. This is done via a fiberwise integration on supermanifolds.
Classical methods of DOA estimation such as the MUSIC algorithm are based on estimating the signal and noise subspaces from the sample covariance matrix. For a small number of samples, such methods are exposed to performance breakdown, as the sample covariance matrix can largely deviate from the true covariance matrix. In this paper, the problem of DOA estimation performance breakdown is investigated. We consider the structure of the sample covariance matrix and the dynamics of the root-MUSIC algorithm. The performance breakdown in the threshold region is associated with the subspace leakage where some portion of the true signal subspace resides in the estimated noise subspace. In this paper, the subspace leakage is theoretically derived. We also propose a two-step method which improves the performance by modifying the sample covariance matrix such that the amount of the subspace leakage is reduced. Furthermore, we introduce a phenomenon named as root-swap which occurs in the root-MUSIC algorithm in the low sample size region and degrades the performance of the DOA estimation. A new method is then proposed to alleviate this problem. Numerical examples and simulation results are given for uncorrelated and correlated sources to illustrate the improvement achieved by the proposed methods. Moreover, the proposed algorithms are combined with the pseudo-noise resampling method to further improve the performance.
Improving upon the standard evolutionary population synthesis (EPS) technique, we present spectrophotometric models of galaxies whose morphology goes from spherical structures to discs, properly accounting for the effect of dust in the interstellar medium (ISM). These models enclose three main physical components: the diffuse ISM composed by gas and dust, the complexes of molecular clouds (MCs) where active star formation occurs and the stars of any age and chemical composition. These models are based on robust evolutionary chemical models that provide the total amount of gas and stars present at any age and that are adjusted in order to match the gross properties of galaxies of different morphological type. We have employed the results for the properties of the ISM presented in Piovan, Tantalo & Chiosi (2006a) and the single stellar populations calculated by Cassar\`a et al. (2013) to derive the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of galaxies going from pure bulge to discs passing through a number of composite systems with different combinations of the two components. The first part of the paper is devoted to recall the technical details of the method and the basic relations driving the interaction between the physical components of the galaxy. Then, the main parameters are examined and their effects on the spectral energy distribution of three prototype galaxies are highlighted. We conclude analyzing the capability of our galaxy models in reproducing the SEDs of real galaxies in the Local Universe and as a function of redshift.
The well known "associativity property" of the crossed product by a semi-direct product of discrete groups is generalized into the context of discrete \emph{quantum} groups. This decomposition allows to define an appropriate triangulated functor relating the Baum-Connes property for the quantum semi-direct product to the Baum-Connes property for the discrete quantum groups involved in the construction. The corresponding stability result for the Baum-Connes property generalizes a result of J. Chabert for a quantum semi-direct product under torsion-freeness assumption. The $K$-amenability connexion between the discrete quantum groups involved in the construction is investigated as well as the torsion phenomena. The analogous strategy can be applied for the dual of a quantum direct product. In this case, we obtain, in addition, a connection with the \emph{K\"{u}nneth formula}, which is the quantum counterpart to a result of J. Chabert, S. Echterhoff and H. Oyono-Oyono. Again the $K$-amenability connexion between the discrete quantum groups involved in the construction is investigated as well as the torsion phenomena.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the magnetotransport properties of the Ge(0.743)Pb(0.183)Mn(0.074)Te mixed crystal. The results of magnetization measurements indicated that the compound is a spin-glass-like diluted magnetic semiconductor with critical temperature TSG = 97.5 K. Nanoclusters in the sample are observed. Both, matrix and clusters are magnetically active. Resistivity as a function of temperature has a minimum at 30 K. Below the minimum a variable-range hopping is observed, while above the minimum a metallic-like behavior occurs. The crystal has high hole concentration, p = 6.6E20 cm-3, temperature-independent. Magnetoresistance amplitude changes from -0.78 to 1.18% with increase of temperature. In the magnetotransport measurements we observed the anomalous Hall effect (AHE) with hysteresis loops. Calculated AHE coefficient, RS = 2.0E6 m3/C, is temperature independent. The analysis indicates the extrinsic skew scattering mechanism to be the main physical mechanism responsible for AHE in Ge(0.743)Pb(0.183)Mn(0.074)Te alloy.
The current flow of high accuracy astrophysical data, among which are the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) measurements by the Planck satellite, offers an unprecedented opportunity to constrain the inflationary theory. This is however a challenging project given the size of the inflationary landscape which contains hundreds of different scenarios. Given that there is currently no observational evidence for primordial non-Gaussianities, isocurvature perturbations or any other non-minimal extension of the inflationary paradigm, a reasonable approach is to consider the simplest models first, namely the slow-roll single field models with minimal kinetic terms. This still leaves us with a very populated landscape, the exploration of which requires new and efficient strategies. It has been customary to tackle this problem by means of approximate model independent methods while a more ambitious alternative is to study the inflationary scenarios one by one. We have developed the new publicly available runtime library ASPIC to implement this last approach. The ASPIC code provides all routines needed to quickly derive reheating consistent observable predictions within this class of scenarios. ASPIC has been designed as an evolutive code which presently supports 118 different models, a number that may be compared with three or four representing the present state of the art. In this paper, for each of the ASPIC models, we present and collect new results in a systematic manner, thereby constituting the first Encyclopaedia Inflationaris.
The free particle in quantum mechanics in real space is endowed with supersymmetry, which enables a natural extension to complex spectra with a built-in parity (P) and time reversal (T) symmetry. It also explains the origin of unbroken and broken phases of the PT-symmetry and their relationship with the real and complex eigenvalues respectively, the latter further displaying zero-width resonances. This is possible as the extension of the eigenvalue problem to the complex plane enables the incorporation of bound and decaying states in the enlarged Hilbert space. The inherent freedom of modification of the potential without changing the spectra in supersymmetry naturally explains the connection of complex breather solutions of KdV with PT-symmetry and the free particle on the complex plane. Further, non-trivial zero-width resonances in the broken PT phase mandate a generalization that is directly connected to the sl(2, R) potential algebra.
We investigate a simple velocity jump process in the regime of large deviation asymptotics. New velocities are taken randomly at a constant, large, rate from a Gaussian distribution with vanishing variance. The Kolmogorov forward equation associated with this process is the linear BGK kinetic transport equation. We derive a new type of Hamilton-Jacobi equation which is nonlocal with respect to the velocity variable. We introduce a suitable notion of viscosity solution, and we prove well-posedness in the viscosity sense. We also prove convergence of the logarithmic transformation towards this limit problem. Furthermore, we identify the variational formulation of the solution by means of an action functional supported on piecewise linear curves. As an application of this theory, we compute the exact rate of acceleration in a kinetic version of the celebrated Fisher-KPP equation in the one-dimensional case.
AIMS:The aim of this paper is to study the characteristics of the stellar populations and the metallicity distribution in the Galactic bulge. We study the entire stellar population, but also retrieve information using only the red clump stars. METHODS: To study the characteristics of the stellar populations and the metallicity distribution in the Galactic bulge, we compared the output of the galaxy model TRILEGAL, which implements the Binney et al. (1997) bulge model, with observations from 2MASS and OGLE-II. A minimisation procedure has been set up to retrieve the best fitting model with different stellar populations and metallicity distributions. RESULTS: Using the TRILEGAL code we find that the best model resembling the characteristics of the Galactic bulge is a model with the distance to the Galactic centre $R_0 = 8.7\pm^{0.57}_{0.43}$ kpc, the major axis ratios of the bar $1:\eta:\zeta = 1 : 0.68\pm_{0.19}^{0.05} : 0.31\pm_{0.04}^{0.06}$, and the angle between the Sun-centre line and the bar $\phi = 15\deg\pm_{12.7}^{13.3}$. Using these parameters the best model is found for a burst of 8 Gyr, although it is almost indistinguishable from models with ages of 9 and 10 Gyr. The metallicity distribution found is consistent with metallicity distributions in the literature based on spectroscopic results.
We perform a first-principles calculation of the quantum-limited laser linewidth, testing the predictions of recently developed theories of the laser linewidth based on fluctuations about the known steady-state laser solutions against traditional forms of the Schawlow-Townes linewidth. The numerical study is based on finite-difference time-domain simulations of the semiclassical Maxwell-Bloch lasing equations, augmented with Langevin force terms, and thus includes the effects of dispersion, losses due to the open boundary of the laser cavity, and non-linear coupling between the amplitude and phase fluctuations ($\alpha$ factor). We find quantitative agreement between the numerical results and the predictions of the noisy steady-state ab initio laser theory (N-SALT), both in the variation of the linewidth with output power, as well as the emergence of side-peaks due to relaxation oscillations.
The classical Pfaff-Darboux theorem, which provides local 'normal forms' for $1$-forms on manifolds, has applications in the theory of certain economic models [Chiappori P.-A., Ekeland I., Found. Trends Microecon. 5 (2009), 1-151]. However, the normal forms needed in these models often come with an additional requirement of some type of convexity, which is not provided by the classical proofs of the Pfaff-Darboux theorem. (The appropriate notion of 'convexity' is a feature of the economic model. In the simplest case, when the economic model is formulated in a domain in $\mathbb{R}^n$, convexity has its usual meaning.) In [Methods Appl. Anal. 9 (2002), 329-344], Ekeland and Nirenberg were able to characterize necessary and sufficient conditions for a given 1-form $\omega$ to admit a convex local normal form (and to show that some earlier attempts [Chiappori P.-A., Ekeland I., Ann. Scuola Norm. Sup. Pisa Cl. Sci. 4 25 (1997), 287-297] and [Zakalyukin V.M., C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris S\'er. I Math. 327 (1998), 633-638] at this characterization had been unsuccessful). In this article, after providing some necessary background, I prove a strengthened and generalized convex Pfaff-Darboux theorem, one that covers the case of a Legendrian foliation in which the notion of convexity is defined in terms of a torsion-free affine connection on the underlying manifold. (The main result of Ekeland and Nirenberg concerns the case in which the affine connection is flat.)
In 2000 Klazar introduced a new notion of pattern avoidance in the context of set partitions of $[n]=\{1,\ldots, n\}$. The purpose of the present paper is to undertake a study of the concept of Wilf-equivalence based on Klazar's notion. We determine all Wilf-equivalences for partitions with exactly two blocks, one of which is a singleton block, and we conjecture that, for $n\geq 4$, these are all the Wilf-equivalences except for those arising from complementation. If $\tau$ is a partition of $[k]$ and $\Pi_n(\tau)$ denotes the set of all partitions of $[n]$ that avoid $\tau$, we establish inequalities between $|\Pi_n(\tau_1)|$ and $|\Pi_n(\tau_2)|$ for several choices of $\tau_1$ and $\tau_2$, and we prove that if $\tau_2$ is the partition of $[k]$ with only one block, then $|\Pi_n(\tau_1)| <|\Pi_n(\tau_2)|$ for all $n>k$ and all partitions $\tau_1$ of $[k]$ with exactly two blocks. We conjecture that this result holds for all partitions $\tau_1$ of $[k]$. Finally, we enumerate $\Pi_n(\tau)$ for all partitions $\tau$ of $[4]$.
In the present paper, we derive a closed-form solution of the multi-period portfolio choice problem for a quadratic utility function with and without a riskless asset. All results are derived under weak conditions on the asset returns. No assumption on the correlation structure between different time points is needed and no assumption on the distribution is imposed. All expressions are presented in terms of the conditional mean vectors and the conditional covariance matrices. If the multivariate process of the asset returns is independent it is shown that in the case without a riskless asset the solution is presented as a sequence of optimal portfolio weights obtained by solving the single-period Markowitz optimization problem. The process dynamics are included only in the shape parameter of the utility function. If a riskless asset is present then the multi-period optimal portfolio weights are proportional to the single-period solutions multiplied by time-varying constants which are depending on the process dynamics. Remarkably, in the case of a portfolio selection with the tangency portfolio the multi-period solution coincides with the sequence of the simple-period solutions. Finally, we compare the suggested strategies with existing multi-period portfolio allocation methods for real data.
Semantic segmentation using convolutional neural networks (CNN) is a crucial component in image analysis. Training a CNN to perform semantic segmentation requires a large amount of labeled data, where the production of such labeled data is both costly and labor intensive. Semi-supervised learning algorithms address this issue by utilizing unlabeled data and so reduce the amount of labeled data needed for training. In particular, data augmentation techniques such as CutMix and ClassMix generate additional training data from existing labeled data. In this paper we propose a new approach for data augmentation, termed ComplexMix, which incorporates aspects of CutMix and ClassMix with improved performance. The proposed approach has the ability to control the complexity of the augmented data while attempting to be semantically-correct and address the tradeoff between complexity and correctness. The proposed ComplexMix approach is evaluated on a standard dataset for semantic segmentation and compared to other state-of-the-art techniques. Experimental results show that our method yields improvement over state-of-the-art methods on standard datasets for semantic image segmentation.
Finger vein recognition has drawn increasing attention as one of the most popular and promising biometrics due to its high distinguishes ability, security and non-invasive procedure. The main idea of traditional schemes is to directly extract features from finger vein images or patterns and then compare features to find the best match. However, the features extracted from images contain much redundant data, while the features extracted from patterns are greatly influenced by image segmentation methods. To tack these problems, this paper proposes a new finger vein recognition by generating code. The proposed method does not require an image segmentation algorithm, is simple to calculate and has a small amount of data. Firstly, the finger vein images were divided into blocks to calculate the mean value. Then the centrosymmetric coding is performed by using the generated eigenmatrix. The obtained codewords are concatenated as the feature codewords of the image. The similarity between vein codes is measured by the ratio of minimum Hamming distance to codeword length. Extensive experiments on two public finger vein databases verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. The results indicate that our method outperforms the state-of-theart methods and has competitive potential in performing the matching task.
We address the problem of semantic nighttime image segmentation and improve the state-of-the-art, by adapting daytime models to nighttime without using nighttime annotations. Moreover, we design a new evaluation framework to address the substantial uncertainty of semantics in nighttime images. Our central contributions are: 1) a curriculum framework to gradually adapt semantic segmentation models from day to night through progressively darker times of day, exploiting cross-time-of-day correspondences between daytime images from a reference map and dark images to guide the label inference in the dark domains; 2) a novel uncertainty-aware annotation and evaluation framework and metric for semantic segmentation, including image regions beyond human recognition capability in the evaluation in a principled fashion; 3) the Dark Zurich dataset, comprising 2416 unlabeled nighttime and 2920 unlabeled twilight images with correspondences to their daytime counterparts plus a set of 201 nighttime images with fine pixel-level annotations created with our protocol, which serves as a first benchmark for our novel evaluation. Experiments show that our map-guided curriculum adaptation significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on nighttime sets both for standard metrics and our uncertainty-aware metric. Furthermore, our uncertainty-aware evaluation reveals that selective invalidation of predictions can improve results on data with ambiguous content such as our benchmark and profit safety-oriented applications involving invalid inputs.
We present a fully convolutional neural network (ConvNet), named RatLesNetv2, for segmenting lesions in rodent magnetic resonance (MR) brain images. RatLesNetv2 architecture resembles an autoencoder and it incorporates residual blocks that facilitate its optimization. RatLesNetv2 is trained end to end on three-dimensional images and it requires no preprocessing. We evaluated RatLesNetv2 on an exceptionally large dataset composed of 916 T2-weighted rat brain MRI scans of 671 rats at nine different lesion stages that were used to study focal cerebral ischemia for drug development. In addition, we compared its performance with three other ConvNets specifically designed for medical image segmentation. RatLesNetv2 obtained similar to higher Dice coefficient values than the other ConvNets and it produced much more realistic and compact segmentations with notably fewer holes and lower Hausdorff distance. The Dice scores of RatLesNetv2 segmentations also exceeded inter-rater agreement of manual segmentations. In conclusion, RatLesNetv2 could be used for automated lesion segmentation, reducing human workload and improving reproducibility. RatLesNetv2 is publicly available at https://github.com/jmlipman/RatLesNetv2.
Automatic histopathology image segmentation is crucial to disease analysis. Limited available labeled data hinders the generalizability of trained models under the fully supervised setting. Semi-supervised learning (SSL) based on generative methods has been proven to be effective in utilizing diverse image characteristics. However, it has not been well explored what kinds of generated images would be more useful for model training and how to use such images. In this paper, we propose a new data guided generative method for histopathology image segmentation by leveraging the unlabeled data distributions. First, we design an image generation module. Image content and style are disentangled and embedded in a clustering-friendly space to utilize their distributions. New images are synthesized by sampling and cross-combining contents and styles. Second, we devise an effective data selection policy for judiciously sampling the generated images: (1) to make the generated training set better cover the dataset, the clusters that are underrepresented in the original training set are covered more; (2) to make the training process more effective, we identify and oversample the images of "hard cases" in the data for which annotated training data may be scarce. Our method is evaluated on glands and nuclei datasets. We show that under both the inductive and transductive settings, our SSL method consistently boosts the performance of common segmentation models and attains state-of-the-art results.
Semantic segmentation has achieved significant advances in recent years. While deep neural networks perform semantic segmentation well, their success rely on pixel level supervision which is expensive and time-consuming. Further, training using data from one domain may not generalize well to data from a new domain due to a domain gap between data distributions in the different domains. This domain gap is particularly evident in aerial images where visual appearance depends on the type of environment imaged, season, weather, and time of day when the environment is imaged. Subsequently, this distribution gap leads to severe accuracy loss when using a pretrained segmentation model to analyze new data with different characteristics. In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised domain adaptation framework to address domain shift in the context of aerial semantic image segmentation. To this end, we solve the problem of domain shift by learn the soft label distribution difference between the source and target domains. Further, we also apply entropy minimization on the target domain to produce high-confident prediction rather than using high-confident prediction by pseudo-labeling. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our domain adaptation framework using the challenge image segmentation dataset of ISPRS, and show improvement over state-of-the-art methods in terms of various metrics.
It has been widely recognized that the success of deep learning in image segmentation relies overwhelmingly on a myriad amount of densely annotated training data, which, however, are difficult to obtain due to the tremendous labor and expertise required, particularly for annotating 3D medical images. Although self-supervised learning (SSL) has shown great potential to address this issue, most SSL approaches focus only on image-level global consistency, but ignore the local consistency which plays a pivotal role in capturing structural information for dense prediction tasks such as segmentation. In this paper, we propose a PriorGuided Local (PGL) self-supervised model that learns the region-wise local consistency in the latent feature space. Specifically, we use the spatial transformations, which produce different augmented views of the same image, as a prior to deduce the location relation between two views, which is then used to align the feature maps of the same local region but being extracted on two views. Next, we construct a local consistency loss to minimize the voxel-wise discrepancy between the aligned feature maps. Thus, our PGL model learns the distinctive representations of local regions, and hence is able to retain structural information. This ability is conducive to downstream segmentation tasks. We conducted an extensive evaluation on four public computerized tomography (CT) datasets that cover 11 kinds of major human organs and two tumors. The results indicate that using pre-trained PGL model to initialize a downstream network leads to a substantial performance improvement over both random initialization and the initialization with global
Due to the intensive cost of labor and expertise in annotating 3D medical images at a voxel level, most benchmark datasets are equipped with the annotations of only one type of organs and/or tumors, resulting in the so-called partially labeling issue. To address this, we propose a dynamic on-demand network (DoDNet) that learns to segment multiple organs and tumors on partially labeled datasets. DoDNet consists of a shared encoder-decoder architecture, a task encoding module, a controller for generating dynamic convolution filters, and a single but dynamic segmentation head. The information of the current segmentation task is encoded as a task-aware prior to tell the model what the task is expected to solve. Different from existing approaches which fix kernels after training, the kernels in dynamic head are generated adaptively by the controller, conditioned on both input image and assigned task. Thus, DoDNet is able to segment multiple organs and tumors, as done by multiple networks or a multi-head network, in a much efficient and flexible manner. We have created a large-scale partially labeled dataset, termed MOTS, and demonstrated the superior performance of our DoDNet over other competitors on seven organ and tumor segmentation tasks. We also transferred the weights pre-trained on MOTS to a downstream multi-organ segmentation task and achieved state-of-the-art performance. This study provides a general 3D medical image segmentation model that has been pre-trained on a large-scale partially labelled dataset and can be extended (after fine-tuning) to downstream volumetric medical data segmentation tasks. The dataset and code areavailableat:
Medical image segmentation is one of the major challenges addressed by machine learning methods. Yet, deep learning methods profoundly depend on a large amount of annotated data, which is time-consuming and costly. Though, semi-supervised learning methods approach this problem by leveraging an abundant amount of unlabeled data along with a small amount of labeled data in the training process. Recently, MixUp regularizer has been successfully introduced to semi-supervised learning methods showing superior performance. MixUp augments the model with new data points through linear interpolation of the data at the input space. We argue that this option is limited. Instead, we propose ROAM, a RandOm lAyer Mixup, which encourages the network to be less confident for interpolated data points at randomly selected space. ROAM generates more data points that have never seen before, and hence it avoids over-fitting and enhances the generalization ability. We conduct extensive experiments to validate our method on three publicly available datasets on whole-brain image segmentation. ROAM achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) results in fully supervised (89.5%) and semi-supervised (87.0%) settings with a relative improvement of up to 2.40% and 16.50%, respectively for the whole-brain segmentation.
Deep learning (DL) models for disease classification or segmentation from medical images are increasingly trained using transfer learning (TL) from unrelated natural world images. However, shortcomings and utility of TL for specialized tasks in the medical imaging domain remain unknown and are based on assumptions that increasing training data will improve performance. We report detailed comparisons, rigorous statistical analysis and comparisons of widely used DL architecture for binary segmentation after TL with ImageNet initialization (TII-models) with supervised learning with only medical images(LMI-models) of macroscopic optical skin cancer, microscopic prostate core biopsy and Computed Tomography (CT) DICOM images. Through visual inspection of TII and LMI model outputs and their Grad-CAM counterparts, our results identify several counter intuitive scenarios where automated segmentation of one tumor by both models or the use of individual segmentation output masks in various combinations from individual models leads to 10% increase in performance. We also report sophisticated ensemble DL strategies for achieving clinical grade medical image segmentation and model explanations under low data regimes. For example; estimating performance, explanations and replicability of LMI and TII models described by us can be used for situations in which sparsity promotes better learning. A free GitHub repository of TII and LMI models, code and more than 10,000 medical images and their Grad-CAM output from this study can be used as starting points for advanced computational medicine and DL research for biomedical discovery and applications.
Recent years have seen increasing use of supervised learning methods for segmentation tasks. However, the predictive performance of these algorithms depends on the quality of labels. This problem is particularly pertinent in the medical image domain, where both the annotation cost and inter-observer variability are high. In a typical label acquisition process, different human experts provide their estimates of the "true" segmentation labels under the influence of their own biases and competence levels. Treating these noisy labels blindly as the ground truth limits the performance that automatic segmentation algorithms can achieve. In this work, we present a method for jointly learning, from purely noisy observations alone, the reliability of individual annotators and the true segmentation label distributions, using two coupled CNNs. The separation of the two is achieved by encouraging the estimated annotators to be maximally unreliable while achieving high fidelity with the noisy training data. We first define a toy segmentation dataset based on MNIST and study the properties of the proposed algorithm. We then demonstrate the utility of the method on three public medical imaging segmentation datasets with simulated (when necessary) and real diverse annotations: 1) MSLSC (multiple-sclerosis lesions); 2) BraTS (brain tumours); 3) LIDC-IDRI (lung abnormalities). In all cases, our method outperforms competing methods and relevant baselines particularly in cases where the number of annotations is small and the amount of disagreement is large. The experiments also show strong ability to capture the complex spatial characteristics of annotators' mistakes.
Computer vision technology is widely used in biological and medical data analysis and understanding. However, there are still two major bottlenecks in the field of cell membrane segmentation, which seriously hinder further research: lack of sufficient high-quality data and lack of suitable evaluation criteria. In order to solve these two problems, this paper first proposes an Ultra-high Resolution Image Segmentation dataset for the Cell membrane, called U-RISC, the largest annotated Electron Microscopy (EM) dataset for the Cell membrane with multiple iterative annotations and uncompressed high-resolution raw data. During the analysis process of the U-RISC, we found that the current popular segmentation evaluation criteria are inconsistent with human perception. This interesting phenomenon is confirmed by a subjective experiment involving twenty people. Furthermore, to resolve this inconsistency, we propose a new evaluation criterion called Perceptual Hausdorff Distance (PHD) to measure the quality of cell membrane segmentation results. Detailed performance comparison and discussion of classic segmentation methods along with two iterative manual annotation results under existing evaluation criteria and PHD is given.
Few-shot semantic segmentation (FSS) has great potential for medical imaging applications. Most of the existing FSS techniques require abundant annotated semantic classes for training. However, these methods may not be applicable for medical images due to the lack of annotations. To address this problem we make several contributions: (1) A novel self-supervised FSS framework for medical images in order to eliminate the requirement for annotations during training. Additionally, superpixel-based pseudo-labels are generated to provide supervision; (2) An adaptive local prototype pooling module plugged into prototypical networks, to solve the common challenging foreground-background imbalance problem in medical image segmentation; (3) We demonstrate the general applicability of the proposed approach for medical images using three different tasks: abdominal organ segmentation for CT and MRI, as well as cardiac segmentation for MRI. Our results show that, for medical image segmentation, the proposed method outperforms conventional FSS methods which require manual annotations for training.
Referring image segmentation aims at segmenting the foreground masks of the entities that can well match the description given in the natural language expression. Previous approaches tackle this problem using implicit feature interaction and fusion between visual and linguistic modalities, but usually fail to explore informative words of the expression to well align features from the two modalities for accurately identifying the referred entity. In this paper, we propose a Cross-Modal Progressive Comprehension (CMPC) module and a Text-Guided Feature Exchange (TGFE) module to effectively address the challenging task. Concretely, the CMPC module first employs entity and attribute words to perceive all the related entities that might be considered by the expression. Then, the relational words are adopted to highlight the correct entity as well as suppress other irrelevant ones by multimodal graph reasoning. In addition to the CMPC module, we further leverage a simple yet effective TGFE module to integrate the reasoned multimodal features from different levels with the guidance of textual information. In this way, features from multi-levels could communicate with each other and be refined based on the textual context. We conduct extensive experiments on four popular referring segmentation benchmarks and achieve new state-of-the-art performances.
Today's success of state of the art methods for semantic segmentation is driven by large datasets. Data is considered an important asset that needs to be protected, as the collection and annotation of such datasets comes at significant efforts and associated costs. In addition, visual data might contain private or sensitive information, that makes it equally unsuited for public release. Unfortunately, recent work on membership inference in the broader area of adversarial machine learning and inference attacks on machine learning models has shown that even black box classifiers leak information on the dataset that they were trained on. We show that such membership inference attacks can be successfully carried out on complex, state of the art models for semantic segmentation. In order to mitigate the associated risks, we also study a series of defenses against such membership inference attacks and find effective counter measures against the existing risks with little effect on the utility of the segmentation method. Finally, we extensively evaluate our attacks and defenses on a range of relevant real-world datasets: Cityscapes, BDD100K, and Mapillary Vistas.
Games such as go, chess and checkers have multiple equivalent game states, i.e. multiple board positions where symmetrical and opposite moves should be made. These equivalences are not exploited by current state of the art neural agents which instead must relearn similar information, thereby wasting computing time. Group equivariant CNNs in existing work create networks which can exploit symmetries to improve learning, however, they lack the expressiveness to correctly reflect the move embeddings necessary for games. We introduce Finite Group Neural Networks (FGNNs), a method for creating agents with an innate understanding of these board positions. FGNNs are shown to improve the performance of networks playing checkers (draughts), and can be easily adapted to other games and learning problems. Additionally, FGNNs can be created from existing network architectures. These include, for the first time, those with skip connections and arbitrary layer types. We demonstrate that an equivariant version of U-Net (FGNN-U-Net) outperforms the unmodified network in image segmentation.
Given a 3D surface defined by an elevation function on a 2D grid as well as non-spatial features observed at each pixel, the problem of surface segmentation aims to classify pixels into contiguous classes based on both non-spatial features and surface topology. The problem has important applications in hydrology, planetary science, and biochemistry but is uniquely challenging for several reasons. First, the spatial extent of class segments follows surface contours in the topological space, regardless of their spatial shapes and directions. Second, the topological structure exists in multiple spatial scales based on different surface resolutions. Existing widely successful deep learning models for image segmentation are often not applicable due to their reliance on convolution and pooling operations to learn regular structural patterns on a grid. In contrast, we propose to represent surface topological structure by a contour tree skeleton, which is a polytree capturing the evolution of surface contours at different elevation levels. We further design a graph neural network based on the contour tree hierarchy to model surface topological structure at different spatial scales. Experimental evaluations based on real-world hydrological datasets show that our model outperforms several baseline methods in classification accuracy.
Semantic segmentation is a critical method in the field of autonomous driving. When performing semantic image segmentation, a wider field of view (FoV) helps to obtain more information about the surrounding environment, making automatic driving safer and more reliable, which could be offered by fisheye cameras. However, large public fisheye datasets are not available, and the fisheye images captured by the fisheye camera with large FoV comes with large distortion, so commonly-used semantic segmentation model cannot be directly utilized. In this paper, a seven degrees of freedom (DoF) augmentation method is proposed to transform rectilinear image to fisheye image in a more comprehensive way. In the training process, rectilinear images are transformed into fisheye images in seven DoF, which simulates the fisheye images taken by cameras of different positions, orientations and focal lengths. The result shows that training with the seven-DoF augmentation can improve the model's accuracy and robustness against different distorted fisheye data. This seven-DoF augmentation provides a universal semantic segmentation solution for fisheye cameras in different autonomous driving applications. Also, we provide specific parameter settings of the augmentation for autonomous driving. At last, we tested our universal semantic segmentation model on real fisheye images and obtained satisfactory results. The code and configurations are released at https://github.com/Yaozhuwa/FisheyeSeg.
In this paper, we propose an easily trained yet powerful representation learning approach with performance highly competitive to deep neural networks in a digital pathology image segmentation task. The method, called sparse coding driven deep decision tree ensembles that we abbreviate as ScD2TE, provides a new perspective on representation learning. We explore the possibility of stacking several layers based on non-differentiable pairwise modules and generate a densely concatenated architecture holding the characteristics of feature map reuse and end-to-end dense learning. Under this architecture, fast convolutional sparse coding is used to extract multi-level features from the output of each layer. In this way, rich image appearance models together with more contextual information are integrated by learning a series of decision tree ensembles. The appearance and the high-level context features of all the previous layers are seamlessly combined by concatenating them to feed-forward as input, which in turn makes the outputs of subsequent layers more accurate and the whole model efficient to train. Compared with deep neural networks, our proposed ScD2TE does not require back-propagation computation and depends on less hyper-parameters. ScD2TE is able to achieve a fast end-to-end pixel-wise training in a layer-wise manner. We demonstrated the superiority of our segmentation technique by evaluating it on the multi-disease state and multi-organ dataset where consistently higher performances were obtained for comparison against several state-of-the-art deep learning methods such as convolutional neural networks (CNN), fully convolutional networks (FCN), etc.
Although deep convolutional networks have reached state-of-the-art performance in many medical image segmentation tasks, they have typically demonstrated poor generalisation capability. To be able to generalise from one domain (e.g. one imaging modality) to another, domain adaptation has to be performed. While supervised methods may lead to good performance, they require to fully annotate additional data which may not be an option in practice. In contrast, unsupervised methods don't need additional annotations but are usually unstable and hard to train. In this work, we propose a novel weakly-supervised method. Instead of requiring detailed but time-consuming annotations, scribbles on the target domain are used to perform domain adaptation. This paper introduces a new formulation of domain adaptation based on structured learning and co-segmentation. Our method is easy to train, thanks to the introduction of a regularised loss. The framework is validated on Vestibular Schwannoma segmentation (T1 to T2 scans). Our proposed method outperforms unsupervised approaches and achieves comparable performance to a fully-supervised approach.
We present a method combining affinity prediction with region agglomeration, which improves significantly upon the state of the art of neuron segmentation from electron microscopy (EM) in accuracy and scalability. Our method consists of a 3D U-NET, trained to predict affinities between voxels, followed by iterative region agglomeration. We train using a structured loss based on MALIS, encouraging topologically correct segmentations obtained from affinity thresholding. Our extension consists of two parts: First, we present a quasi-linear method to compute the loss gradient, improving over the original quadratic algorithm. Second, we compute the gradient in two separate passes to avoid spurious gradient contributions in early training stages. Our predictions are accurate enough that simple learning-free percentile-based agglomeration outperforms more involved methods used earlier on inferior predictions. We present results on three diverse EM datasets, achieving relative improvements over previous results of 27%, 15%, and 250%. Our findings suggest that a single method can be applied to both nearly isotropic block-face EM data and anisotropic serial sectioned EM data. The runtime of our method scales linearly with the size of the volume and achieves a throughput of about 2.6 seconds per megavoxel, qualifying our method for the processing of very large datasets.
Segmentation of multiple surfaces in medical images is a challenging problem, further complicated by the frequent presence of weak boundary and mutual influence between adjacent objects. The traditional graph-based optimal surface segmentation method has proven its effectiveness with its ability of capturing various surface priors in a uniform graph model. However, its efficacy heavily relies on handcrafted features that are used to define the surface cost for the "goodness" of a surface. Recently, deep learning (DL) is emerging as powerful tools for medical image segmentation thanks to its superior feature learning capability. Unfortunately, due to the scarcity of training data in medical imaging, it is nontrivial for DL networks to implicitly learn the global structure of the target surfaces, including surface interactions. In this work, we propose to parameterize the surface cost functions in the graph model and leverage DL to learn those parameters. The multiple optimal surfaces are then simultaneously detected by minimizing the total surface cost while explicitly enforcing the mutual surface interaction constraints. The optimization problem is solved by the primal-dual Internal Point Method, which can be implemented by a layer of neural networks, enabling efficient end-to-end training of the whole network. Experiments on Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography (SD-OCT) retinal layer segmentation and Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS) vessel wall segmentation demonstrated very promising results. All source code is public to facilitate further research at this direction.
Supervised learning in large discriminative models is a mainstay for modern computer vision. Such an approach necessitates investing in large-scale human-annotated datasets for achieving state-of-the-art results. In turn, the efficacy of supervised learning may be limited by the size of the human annotated dataset. This limitation is particularly notable for image segmentation tasks, where the expense of human annotation is especially large, yet large amounts of unlabeled data may exist. In this work, we ask if we may leverage semi-supervised learning in unlabeled video sequences and extra images to improve the performance on urban scene segmentation, simultaneously tackling semantic, instance, and panoptic segmentation. The goal of this work is to avoid the construction of sophisticated, learned architectures specific to label propagation (e.g., patch matching and optical flow). Instead, we simply predict pseudo-labels for the unlabeled data and train subsequent models with both human-annotated and pseudo-labeled data. The procedure is iterated for several times. As a result, our Naive-Student model, trained with such simple yet effective iterative semi-supervised learning, attains state-of-the-art results at all three Cityscapes benchmarks, reaching the performance of 67.8% PQ, 42.6% AP, and 85.2% mIOU on the test set. We view this work as a notable step towards building a simple procedure to harness unlabeled video sequences and extra images to surpass state-of-the-art performance on core computer vision tasks.
In this work, we propose a new unsupervised image segmentation approach based on mutual information maximization between different constructed views of the inputs. Taking inspiration from autoregressive generative models that predict the current pixel from past pixels in a raster-scan ordering created with masked convolutions, we propose to use different orderings over the inputs using various forms of masked convolutions to construct different views of the data. For a given input, the model produces a pair of predictions with two valid orderings, and is then trained to maximize the mutual information between the two outputs. These outputs can either be low-dimensional features for representation learning or output clusters corresponding to semantic labels for clustering. While masked convolutions are used during training, in inference, no masking is applied and we fall back to the standard convolution where the model has access to the full input. The proposed method outperforms current state-of-the-art on unsupervised image segmentation. It is simple and easy to implement, and can be extended to other visual tasks and integrated seamlessly into existing unsupervised learning methods requiring different views of the data.
Uncertainty estimation is important for interpreting the trustworthiness of machine learning models in many applications. This is especially critical in the data-driven active learning setting where the goal is to achieve a certain accuracy with minimum labeling effort. In such settings, the model learns to select the most informative unlabeled samples for annotation based on its estimated uncertainty. The highly uncertain predictions are assumed to be more informative for improving model performance. In this paper, we explore uncertainty calibration within an active learning framework for medical image segmentation, an area where labels often are scarce. Various uncertainty estimation methods and acquisition strategies (regions and full images) are investigated. We observe that selecting regions to annotate instead of full images leads to more well-calibrated models. Additionally, we experimentally show that annotating regions can cut 50% of pixels that need to be labeled by humans compared to annotating full images.
Machine learning has been widely adopted for medical image analysis in recent years given its promising performance in image segmentation and classification tasks. As a data-driven science, the success of machine learning, in particular supervised learning, largely depends on the availability of manually annotated datasets. For medical imaging applications, such annotated datasets are not easy to acquire. It takes a substantial amount of time and resource to curate an annotated medical image set. In this paper, we propose an efficient annotation framework for brain tumour images that is able to suggest informative sample images for human experts to annotate. Our experiments show that training a segmentation model with only 19% suggestively annotated patient scans from BraTS 2019 dataset can achieve a comparable performance to training a model on the full dataset for whole tumour segmentation task. It demonstrates a promising way to save manual annotation cost and improve data efficiency in medical imaging applications.
Although having achieved great success in medical image segmentation, deep learning-based approaches usually require large amounts of well-annotated data, which can be extremely expensive in the field of medical image analysis. Unlabeled data, on the other hand, is much easier to acquire. Semi-supervised learning and unsupervised domain adaptation both take the advantage of unlabeled data, and they are closely related to each other. In this paper, we propose uncertainty-aware multi-view co-training (UMCT), a unified framework that addresses these two tasks for volumetric medical image segmentation. Our framework is capable of efficiently utilizing unlabeled data for better performance. We firstly rotate and permute the 3D volumes into multiple views and train a 3D deep network on each view. We then apply co-training by enforcing multi-view consistency on unlabeled data, where an uncertainty estimation of each view is utilized to achieve accurate labeling. Experiments on the NIH pancreas segmentation dataset and a multi-organ segmentation dataset show state-of-the-art performance of the proposed framework on semi-supervised medical image segmentation. Under unsupervised domain adaptation settings, we validate the effectiveness of this work by adapting our multi-organ segmentation model to two pathological organs from the Medical Segmentation Decathlon Datasets. Additionally, we show that our UMCT-DA model can even effectively handle the challenging situation where labeled source data is inaccessible, demonstrating strong potentials for real-world applications.
This work introduces pyramidal convolution (PyConv), which is capable of processing the input at multiple filter scales. PyConv contains a pyramid of kernels, where each level involves different types of filters with varying size and depth, which are able to capture different levels of details in the scene. On top of these improved recognition capabilities, PyConv is also efficient and, with our formulation, it does not increase the computational cost and parameters compared to standard convolution. Moreover, it is very flexible and extensible, providing a large space of potential network architectures for different applications. PyConv has the potential to impact nearly every computer vision task and, in this work, we present different architectures based on PyConv for four main tasks on visual recognition: image classification, video action classification/recognition, object detection and semantic image segmentation/parsing. Our approach shows significant improvements over all these core tasks in comparison with the baselines. For instance, on image recognition, our 50-layers network outperforms in terms of recognition performance on ImageNet dataset its counterpart baseline ResNet with 152 layers, while having 2.39 times less parameters, 2.52 times lower computational complexity and more than 3 times less layers. On image segmentation, our novel framework sets a new state-of-the-art on the challenging ADE20K benchmark for scene parsing. Code is available at: https://github.com/iduta/pyconv
Shortage of fully annotated datasets has been a limiting factor in developing deep learning based image segmentation algorithms and the problem becomes more pronounced in multi-organ segmentation. In this paper, we propose a unified training strategy that enables a novel multi-scale deep neural network to be trained on multiple partially labeled datasets for multi-organ segmentation. In addition, a new network architecture for multi-scale feature abstraction is proposed to integrate pyramid input and feature analysis into a U-shape pyramid structure. To bridge the semantic gap caused by directly merging features from different scales, an equal convolutional depth mechanism is introduced. Furthermore, we employ a deep supervision mechanism to refine the outputs in different scales. To fully leverage the segmentation features from all the scales, we design an adaptive weighting layer to fuse the outputs in an automatic fashion. All these mechanisms together are integrated into a Pyramid Input Pyramid Output Feature Abstraction Network (PIPO-FAN). Our proposed method was evaluated on four publicly available datasets, including BTCV, LiTS, KiTS and Spleen, where very promising performance has been achieved. The source code of this work is publicly shared at https://github.com/DIAL-RPI/PIPO-FAN for others to easily reproduce the work and build their own models with the introduced mechanisms.
Transfer learning is widely used for training machine learning models. Here, we study the role of transfer learning for training fully convolutional networks (FCNs) for medical image segmentation. Our experiments show that although transfer learning reduces the training time on the target task, the improvement in segmentation accuracy is highly task/data-dependent. Larger improvements in accuracy are observed when the segmentation task is more challenging and the target training data is smaller. We observe that convolutional filters of an FCN change little during training for medical image segmentation, and still look random at convergence. We further show that quite accurate FCNs can be built by freezing the encoder section of the network at random values and only training the decoder section. At least for medical image segmentation, this finding challenges the common belief that the encoder section needs to learn data/task-specific representations. We examine the evolution of FCN representations to gain a better insight into the effects of transfer learning on the training dynamics. Our analysis shows that although FCNs trained via transfer learning learn different representations than FCNs trained with random initialization, the variability among FCNs trained via transfer learning can be as high as that among FCNs trained with random initialization. Moreover, feature reuse is not restricted to the early encoder layers; rather, it can be more significant in deeper layers. These findings offer new insights and suggest alternative ways of training FCNs for medical image segmentation.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have shown to be powerful medical image segmentation models. In this study, we address some of the main unresolved issues regarding these models. Specifically, training of these models on small medical image datasets is still challenging, with many studies promoting techniques such as transfer learning. Moreover, these models are infamous for producing over-confident predictions and for failing silently when presented with out-of-distribution (OOD) data at test time. In this paper, we advocate for multi-task learning, i.e., training a single model on several different datasets, spanning several different organs of interest and different imaging modalities. We show that not only a single CNN learns to automatically recognize the context and accurately segment the organ of interest in each context, but also that such a joint model often has more accurate and better-calibrated predictions than dedicated models trained separately on each dataset. Our experiments show that multi-task learning can outperform transfer learning in medical image segmentation tasks. For detecting OOD data, we propose a method based on spectral analysis of CNN feature maps. We show that different datasets, representing different imaging modalities and/or different organs of interest, have distinct spectral signatures, which can be used to identify whether or not a test image is similar to the images used to train a model. We show that this approach is far more accurate than OOD detection based on prediction uncertainty. The methods proposed in this paper contribute significantly to improving the accuracy and reliability of CNN-based medical image segmentation
In some complicated datasets, due to the presence of noisy data points and outliers, cluster validity indices can give conflicting results in determining the optimal number of clusters. This paper presents a new validity index for fuzzy-possibilistic c-means clustering called Fuzzy-Possibilistic (FP) index, which works well in the presence of clusters that vary in shape and density. Moreover, FPCM like most of the clustering algorithms is susceptible to some initial parameters. In this regard, in addition to the number of clusters, FPCM requires a priori selection of the degree of fuzziness and the degree of typicality. Therefore, we presented an efficient procedure for determining their optimal values. The proposed approach has been evaluated using several synthetic and real-world datasets. Final computational results demonstrate the capabilities and reliability of the proposed approach compared with several well-known fuzzy validity indices in the literature. Furthermore, to clarify the ability of the proposed method in real applications, the proposed method is implemented in microarray gene expression data clustering and medical image segmentation.
Lake ice is a strong climate indicator and has been recognised as part of the Essential Climate Variables (ECV) by the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS). The dynamics of freezing and thawing, and possible shifts of freezing patterns over time, can help in understanding the local and global climate systems. One way to acquire the spatio-temporal information about lake ice formation, independent of clouds, is to analyse webcam images. This paper intends to move towards a universal model for monitoring lake ice with freely available webcam data. We demonstrate good performance, including the ability to generalise across different winters and different lakes, with a state-of-the-art Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model for semantic image segmentation, Deeplab v3+. Moreover, we design a variant of that model, termed Deep-U-Lab, which predicts sharper, more correct segmentation boundaries. We have tested the model's ability to generalise with data from multiple camera views and two different winters. On average, it achieves intersection-over-union (IoU) values of ~71% across different cameras and ~69% across different winters, greatly outperforming prior work. Going even further, we show that the model even achieves 60% IoU on arbitrary images scraped from photo-sharing web sites. As part of the work, we introduce a new benchmark dataset of webcam images, Photi-LakeIce, from multiple cameras and two different winters, along with pixel-wise ground truth annotations.
We propose adversarial constrained-CNN loss, a new paradigm of constrained-CNN loss methods, for weakly supervised medical image segmentation. In the new paradigm, prior knowledge is encoded and depicted by reference masks, and is further employed to impose constraints on segmentation outputs through adversarial learning with reference masks. Unlike pseudo label methods for weakly supervised segmentation, such reference masks are used to train a discriminator rather than a segmentation network, and thus are not required to be paired with specific images. Our new paradigm not only greatly facilitates imposing prior knowledge on network's outputs, but also provides stronger and higher-order constraints, i.e., distribution approximation, through adversarial learning. Extensive experiments involving different medical modalities, different anatomical structures, different topologies of the object of interest, different levels of prior knowledge and weakly supervised annotations with different annotation ratios is conducted to evaluate our ACCL method. Consistently superior segmentation results over the size constrained-CNN loss method have been achieved, some of which are close to the results of full supervision, thus fully verifying the effectiveness and generalization of our method. Specifically, we report an average Dice score of 75.4% with an average annotation ratio of 0.65%, surpassing the prior art, i.e., the size constrained-CNN loss method, by a large margin of 11.4%. Our codes are made publicly available at https://github.com/PengyiZhang/ACCL.
3D convolution neural networks (CNN) have been proved very successful in parsing organs or tumours in 3D medical images, but it remains sophisticated and time-consuming to choose or design proper 3D networks given different task contexts. Recently, Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is proposed to solve this problem by searching for the best network architecture automatically. However, the inconsistency between search stage and deployment stage often exists in NAS algorithms due to memory constraints and large search space, which could become more serious when applying NAS to some memory and time consuming tasks, such as 3D medical image segmentation. In this paper, we propose coarse-to-fine neural architecture search (C2FNAS) to automatically search a 3D segmentation network from scratch without inconsistency on network size or input size. Specifically, we divide the search procedure into two stages: 1) the coarse stage, where we search the macro-level topology of the network, i.e. how each convolution module is connected to other modules; 2) the fine stage, where we search at micro-level for operations in each cell based on previous searched macro-level topology. The coarse-to-fine manner divides the search procedure into two consecutive stages and meanwhile resolves the inconsistency. We evaluate our method on 10 public datasets from Medical Segmentation Decalthon (MSD) challenge, and achieve state-of-the-art performance with the network searched using one dataset, which demonstrates the effectiveness and generalization of our searched models.
At present, adversarial attacks are designed in a task-specific fashion. However, for downstream computer vision tasks such as image captioning, image segmentation etc., the current deep learning systems use an image classifier like VGG16, ResNet50, Inception-v3 etc. as a feature extractor. Keeping this in mind, we propose Mimic and Fool, a task agnostic adversarial attack. Given a feature extractor, the proposed attack finds an adversarial image which can mimic the image feature of the original image. This ensures that the two images give the same (or similar) output regardless of the task. We randomly select 1000 MSCOCO validation images for experimentation. We perform experiments on two image captioning models, Show and Tell, Show Attend and Tell and one VQA model, namely, end-to-end neural module network (N2NMN). The proposed attack achieves success rate of 74.0%, 81.0% and 87.1% for Show and Tell, Show Attend and Tell and N2NMN respectively. We also propose a slight modification to our attack to generate natural-looking adversarial images. In addition, we also show the applicability of the proposed attack for invertible architecture. Since Mimic and Fool only requires information about the feature extractor of the model, it can be considered as a gray-box attack.
Flow-based generative models have highly desirable properties like exact log-likelihood evaluation and exact latent-variable inference, however they are still in their infancy and have not received as much attention as alternative generative models. In this paper, we introduce C-Flow, a novel conditioning scheme that brings normalizing flows to an entirely new scenario with great possibilities for multi-modal data modeling. C-Flow is based on a parallel sequence of invertible mappings in which a source flow guides the target flow at every step, enabling fine-grained control over the generation process. We also devise a new strategy to model unordered 3D point clouds that, in combination with the conditioning scheme, makes it possible to address 3D reconstruction from a single image and its inverse problem of rendering an image given a point cloud. We demonstrate our conditioning method to be very adaptable, being also applicable to image manipulation, style transfer and multi-modal image-to-image mapping in a diversity of domains, including RGB images, segmentation maps, and edge masks.
Land use and land cover mapping are essential to various fields of study, including forestry, agriculture, and urban management. Using earth observation satellites both facilitate and accelerate the task. Lately, deep learning methods have proven to be excellent at automating the mapping via semantic image segmentation. However, because deep neural networks require large amounts of labeled data, it is not easy to exploit the full potential of satellite imagery. Additionally, the land cover tends to differ in appearance from one region to another; therefore, having labeled data from one location does not necessarily help in mapping others. Furthermore, satellite images come in various multispectral bands (the bands could range from RGB to over twelve bands). In this paper, we aim at using domain adaptation to solve the aforementioned problems. We applied a well-performing domain adaptation approach on datasets we have built using RGB images from Sentinel-2, WorldView-2, and Pleiades-1 satellites with Corine Land Cover as ground-truth labels. We have also used the DeepGlobe land cover dataset. Experiments show a significant improvement over results obtained without the use of domain adaptation. In some cases, an improvement of over 20% MIoU. At times it even manages to correct errors in the ground-truth labels.
We introduce a one-shot segmentation method to alleviate the burden of manual annotation for medical images. The main idea is to treat one-shot segmentation as a classical atlas-based segmentation problem, where voxel-wise correspondence from the atlas to the unlabelled data is learned. Subsequently, segmentation label of the atlas can be transferred to the unlabelled data with the learned correspondence. However, since ground truth correspondence between images is usually unavailable, the learning system must be well-supervised to avoid mode collapse and convergence failure. To overcome this difficulty, we resort to the forward-backward consistency, which is widely used in correspondence problems, and additionally learn the backward correspondences from the warped atlases back to the original atlas. This cycle-correspondence learning design enables a variety of extra, cycle-consistency-based supervision signals to make the training process stable, while also boost the performance. We demonstrate the superiority of our method over both deep learning-based one-shot segmentation methods and a classical multi-atlas segmentation method via thorough experiments.
Boosting is a method for learning a single accurate predictor by linearly combining a set of less accurate weak learners. Recently, structured learning has found many applications in computer vision. Inspired by structured support vector machines (SSVM), here we propose a new boosting algorithm for structured output prediction, which we refer to as StructBoost. StructBoost supports nonlinear structured learning by combining a set of weak structured learners. As SSVM generalizes SVM, our StructBoost generalizes standard boosting approaches such as AdaBoost, or LPBoost to structured learning. The resulting optimization problem of StructBoost is more challenging than SSVM in the sense that it may involve exponentially many variables and constraints. In contrast, for SSVM one usually has an exponential number of constraints and a cutting-plane method is used. In order to efficiently solve StructBoost, we formulate an equivalent $ 1 $-slack formulation and solve it using a combination of cutting planes and column generation. We show the versatility and usefulness of StructBoost on a range of problems such as optimizing the tree loss for hierarchical multi-class classification, optimizing the Pascal overlap criterion for robust visual tracking and learning conditional random field parameters for image segmentation.
Despite recent progress on semantic segmentation, there still exist huge challenges in medical ultra-resolution image segmentation. The methods based on multi-branch structure can make a good balance between computational burdens and segmentation accuracy. However, the fusion structure in these methods require to be designed elaborately to achieve desirable result, which leads to model redundancy. In this paper, we propose Meta Segmentation Network (MSN) to solve this challenging problem. With the help of meta-learning, the fusion module of MSN is quite simple but effective. MSN can fast generate the weights of fusion layers through a simple meta-learner, requiring only a few training samples and epochs to converge. In addition, to avoid learning all branches from scratch, we further introduce a particular weight sharing mechanism to realize a fast knowledge adaptation and share the weights among multiple branches, resulting in the performance improvement and significant parameters reduction. The experimental results on two challenging ultra-resolution medical datasets BACH and ISIC show that MSN achieves the best performance compared with the state-of-the-art methods.
Learning-based approaches for semantic segmentation have two inherent challenges. First, acquiring pixel-wise labels is expensive and time-consuming. Second, realistic segmentation datasets are highly unbalanced: some categories are much more abundant than others, biasing the performance to the most represented ones. In this paper, we are interested in focusing human labelling effort on a small subset of a larger pool of data, minimizing this effort while maximizing performance of a segmentation model on a hold-out set. We present a new active learning strategy for semantic segmentation based on deep reinforcement learning (RL). An agent learns a policy to select a subset of small informative image regions -- opposed to entire images -- to be labeled, from a pool of unlabeled data. The region selection decision is made based on predictions and uncertainties of the segmentation model being trained. Our method proposes a new modification of the deep Q-network (DQN) formulation for active learning, adapting it to the large-scale nature of semantic segmentation problems. We test the proof of concept in CamVid and provide results in the large-scale dataset Cityscapes. On Cityscapes, our deep RL region-based DQN approach requires roughly 30% less additional labeled data than our most competitive baseline to reach the same performance. Moreover, we find that our method asks for more labels of under-represented categories compared to the baselines, improving their performance and helping to mitigate class imbalance.
Measuring similarity between two objects is the core operation in existing cluster analyses in grouping similar objects into clusters. Cluster analyses have been applied to a number of applications, including image segmentation, social network analysis, and computational biology. This paper introduces a new similarity measure called point-set kernel which computes the similarity between an object and a sample of objects generated from an unknown distribution. The proposed clustering procedure utilizes this new measure to characterize both the typical point of every cluster and the cluster grown from the typical point. We show that the new clustering procedure is both effective and efficient such that it can deal with large scale datasets. In contrast, existing clustering algorithms are either efficient or effective; and even efficient ones have difficulty dealing with large scale datasets without special hardware. We show that the proposed algorithm is more effective and runs orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art density-peak clustering and scalable kernel k-means clustering when applying to datasets of millions of data points, on commonly used computing machines.
We present a method for segmenting neuron membranes in 2D electron microscopy imagery. This segmentation task has been a bottleneck to reconstruction efforts of the brain's synaptic circuits. One common problem is the misclassification of blurry membrane fragments as cell interior, which leads to merging of two adjacent neuron sections into one via the blurry membrane region. Human annotators can easily avoid such errors by implicitly performing gap completion, taking into account the continuity of membranes. Drawing inspiration from these human strategies, we formulate the segmentation task as an edge labeling problem on a graph with local topological constraints. We derive an integer linear program (ILP) that enforces membrane continuity, i.e. the absence of gaps. The cost function of the ILP is the pixel-wise deviation of the segmentation from a priori membrane probabilities derived from the data. Based on membrane probability maps obtained using random forest classifiers and convolutional neural networks, our method improves the neuron boundary segmentation accuracy compared to a variety of standard segmentation approaches. Our method successfully performs gap completion and leads to fewer topological errors. The method could potentially also be incorporated into other image segmentation pipelines with known topological constraints.
There has recently been great progress in automatic segmentation of medical images with deep learning algorithms. In most works observer variation is acknowledged to be a problem as it makes training data heterogeneous but so far no attempts have been made to explicitly capture this variation. Here, we propose an approach capable of mimicking different styles of segmentation, which potentially can improve quality and clinical acceptance of automatic segmentation methods. In this work, instead of training one neural network on all available data, we train several neural networks on subgroups of data belonging to different segmentation variations separately. Because a priori it may be unclear what styles of segmentation exist in the data and because different styles do not necessarily map one-on-one to different observers, the subgroups should be automatically determined. We achieve this by searching for the best data partition with a genetic algorithm. Therefore, each network can learn a specific style of segmentation from grouped training data. We provide proof of principle results for open-sourced prostate segmentation MRI data with simulated observer variations. Our approach provides an improvement of up to 23% (depending on simulated variations) in terms of Dice and surface Dice coefficients compared to one network trained on all data.
Multi-modal learning is typically performed with network architectures containing modality-specific layers and shared layers, utilizing co-registered images of different modalities. We propose a novel learning scheme for unpaired cross-modality image segmentation, with a highly compact architecture achieving superior segmentation accuracy. In our method, we heavily reuse network parameters, by sharing all convolutional kernels across CT and MRI, and only employ modality-specific internal normalization layers which compute respective statistics. To effectively train such a highly compact model, we introduce a novel loss term inspired by knowledge distillation, by explicitly constraining the KL-divergence of our derived prediction distributions between modalities. We have extensively validated our approach on two multi-class segmentation problems: i) cardiac structure segmentation, and ii) abdominal organ segmentation. Different network settings, i.e., 2D dilated network and 3D U-net, are utilized to investigate our method's general efficacy. Experimental results on both tasks demonstrate that our novel multi-modal learning scheme consistently outperforms single-modal training and previous multi-modal approaches.
That most deep learning models are purely data driven is both a strength and a weakness. Given sufficient training data, the optimal model for a particular problem can be learned. However, this is usually not the case and so instead the model is either learned from scratch from a limited amount of training data or pre-trained on a different problem and then fine-tuned. Both of these situations are potentially suboptimal and limit the generalizability of the model. Inspired by this, we investigate methods to inform or guide deep learning models for geospatial image analysis to increase their performance when a limited amount of training data is available or when they are applied to scenarios other than which they were trained on. In particular, we exploit the fact that there are certain fundamental rules as to how things are distributed on the surface of the Earth and these rules do not vary substantially between locations. Based on this, we develop a novel feature pooling method for convolutional neural networks using Getis-Ord Gi* analysis from geostatistics. Experimental results show our proposed pooling function has significantly better generalization performance compared to a standard data-driven approach when applied to overhead image segmentation.
There is active research targeting local image manipulations that can fool deep neural networks (DNNs) into producing incorrect results. This paper examines a type of global image manipulation that can produce similar adverse effects. Specifically, we explore how strong color casts caused by incorrectly applied computational color constancy - referred to as white balance (WB) in photography - negatively impact the performance of DNNs targeting image segmentation and classification. In addition, we discuss how existing image augmentation methods used to improve the robustness of DNNs are not well suited for modeling WB errors. To address this problem, a novel augmentation method is proposed that can emulate accurate color constancy degradation. We also explore pre-processing training and testing images with a recent WB correction algorithm to reduce the effects of incorrectly white-balanced images. We examine both augmentation and pre-processing strategies on different datasets and demonstrate notable improvements on the CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ADE20K datasets.
LIDAR point clouds and RGB-images are both extremely essential for 3D object detection. So many state-of-the-art 3D detection algorithms dedicate in fusing these two types of data effectively. However, their fusion methods based on Birds Eye View (BEV) or voxel format are not accurate. In this paper, we propose a novel fusion approach named Point-based Attentive Cont-conv Fusion(PACF) module, which fuses multi-sensor features directly on 3D points. Except for continuous convolution, we additionally add a Point-Pooling and an Attentive Aggregation to make the fused features more expressive. Moreover, based on the PACF module, we propose a 3D multi-sensor multi-task network called Pointcloud-Image RCNN(PI-RCNN as brief), which handles the image segmentation and 3D object detection tasks. PI-RCNN employs a segmentation sub-network to extract full-resolution semantic feature maps from images and then fuses the multi-sensor features via powerful PACF module. Beneficial from the effectiveness of the PACF module and the expressive semantic features from the segmentation module, PI-RCNN can improve much in 3D object detection. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the PACF module and PI-RCNN on the KITTI 3D Detection benchmark, and our method can achieve state-of-the-art on the metric of 3D AP.
There has been a debate in 3D medical image segmentation on whether to use 2D or 3D networks, where both pipelines have advantages and disadvantages. 2D methods enjoy a low inference time and greater transfer-ability while 3D methods are superior in performance for hard targets requiring contextual information. This paper investigates efficient 3D segmentation from another perspective, which uses 2D networks to mimic 3D segmentation. To compensate the lack of contextual information in 2D manner, we propose to thicken the 2D network inputs by feeding multiple slices as multiple channels into 2D networks and thus 3D contextual information is incorporated. We also put forward to use early-stage multiplexing and slice sensitive attention to solve the confusion problem of information loss which occurs when 2D networks face thickened inputs. With this design, we achieve a higher performance while maintaining a lower inference latency on a few abdominal organs from CT scans, in particular when the organ has a peculiar 3D shape and thus strongly requires contextual information, demonstrating our method's effectiveness and ability in capturing 3D information. We also point out that "thickened" 2D inputs pave a new method of 3D segmentation, and look forward to more efforts in this direction. Experiments on segmenting a few abdominal targets in particular blood vessels which require strong 3D contexts demonstrate the advantages of our approach.
Image co-segmentation is important for its advantage of alleviating the ill-pose nature of image segmentation through exploring the correlation between related images. Many automatic image co-segmentation algorithms have been developed in the last decade, which are investigated comprehensively in this paper. We firstly analyze visual/semantic cues for guiding image co-segmentation, including object cues and correlation cues. Then we describe the traditional methods in three categories of object elements based, object regions/contours based, common object model based. In the next part, deep learning based methods are reviewed. Furthermore, widely used test datasets and evaluation criteria are introduced and the reported performances of the surveyed algorithms are compared with each other. Finally, we discuss the current challenges and possible future directions and conclude the paper. Hopefully, this comprehensive investigation will be helpful for the development of image co-segmentation technique.
Many recent medical segmentation systems rely on powerful deep learning models to solve highly specific tasks. To maximize performance, it is standard practice to evaluate numerous pipelines with varying model topologies, optimization parameters, pre- & postprocessing steps, and even model cascades. It is often not clear how the resulting pipeline transfers to different tasks. We propose a simple and thoroughly evaluated deep learning framework for segmentation of arbitrary medical image volumes. The system requires no task-specific information, no human interaction and is based on a fixed model topology and a fixed hyperparameter set, eliminating the process of model selection and its inherent tendency to cause method-level over-fitting. The system is available in open source and does not require deep learning expertise to use. Without task-specific modifications, the system performed better than or similar to highly specialized deep learning methods across 3 separate segmentation tasks. In addition, it ranked 5-th and 6-th in the first and second round of the 2018 Medical Segmentation Decathlon comprising another 10 tasks. The system relies on multi-planar data augmentation which facilitates the application of a single 2D architecture based on the familiar U-Net. Multi-planar training combines the parameter efficiency of a 2D fully convolutional neural network with a systematic train- and test-time augmentation scheme, which allows the 2D model to learn a representation of the 3D image volume that fosters generalization.
Generalization capability to unseen domains is crucial for machine learning models when deploying to real-world conditions. We investigate the challenging problem of domain generalization, i.e., training a model on multi-domain source data such that it can directly generalize to target domains with unknown statistics. We adopt a model-agnostic learning paradigm with gradient-based meta-train and meta-test procedures to expose the optimization to domain shift. Further, we introduce two complementary losses which explicitly regularize the semantic structure of the feature space. Globally, we align a derived soft confusion matrix to preserve general knowledge about inter-class relationships. Locally, we promote domain-independent class-specific cohesion and separation of sample features with a metric-learning component. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated with new state-of-the-art results on two common object recognition benchmarks. Our method also shows consistent improvement on a medical image segmentation task.
With the advancement of remote-sensed imaging large volumes of very high resolution land cover images can now be obtained. Automation of object recognition in these 2D images, however, is still a key issue. High intra-class variance and low inter-class variance in Very High Resolution (VHR) images hamper the accuracy of prediction in object recognition tasks. Most successful techniques in various computer vision tasks recently are based on deep supervised learning. In this work, a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based on symmetric encoder-decoder architecture with skip connections is employed for the 2D semantic segmentation of most common land cover object classes - impervious surface, buildings, low vegetation, trees and cars. Atrous convolutions are employed to have large receptive field in the proposed CNN model. Further, the CNN outputs are post-processed using Fully Connected Conditional Random Field (FCRF) model to refine the CNN pixel label predictions. The proposed CNN-FCRF model achieves an overall accuracy of 90.5% on the ISPRS Vaihingen Dataset.
The Active Contour Model (ACM) is a standard image analysis technique whose numerous variants have attracted an enormous amount of research attention across multiple fields. Incorrectly, however, the ACM's differential-equation-based formulation and prototypical dependence on user initialization have been regarded as being largely incompatible with the recently popular deep learning approaches to image segmentation. This paper introduces the first tight unification of these two paradigms. In particular, we devise Deep Convolutional Active Contours (DCAC), a truly end-to-end trainable image segmentation framework comprising a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and an ACM with learnable parameters. The ACM's Eulerian energy functional includes per-pixel parameter maps predicted by the backbone CNN, which also initializes the ACM. Importantly, both the CNN and ACM components are fully implemented in TensorFlow, and the entire DCAC architecture is end-to-end automatically differentiable and backpropagation trainable without user intervention. As a challenging test case, we tackle the problem of building instance segmentation in aerial images and evaluate DCAC on two publicly available datasets, Vaihingen and Bing Huts. Our reseults demonstrate that, for building segmentation, the DCAC establishes a new state-of-the-art performance by a wide margin.
Overfitting in deep learning has been the focus of a number of recent works, yet its exact impact on the behavior of neural networks is not well understood. This study analyzes overfitting by examining how the distribution of logits alters in relation to how much the model overfits. Specifically, we find that when training with few data samples, the distribution of logit activations when processing unseen test samples of an under-represented class tends to shift towards and even across the decision boundary, while the over-represented class seems unaffected. In image segmentation, foreground samples are often heavily under-represented. We observe that sensitivity of the model drops as a result of overfitting, while precision remains mostly stable. Based on our analysis, we derive asymmetric modifications of existing loss functions and regularizers including a large margin loss, focal loss, adversarial training and mixup, which specifically aim at reducing the shift observed when embedding unseen samples of the under-represented class. We study the case of binary segmentation of brain tumor core and show that our proposed simple modifications lead to significantly improved segmentation performance over the symmetric variants.
Three-dimensional medical image segmentation is one of the most important problems in medical image analysis and plays a key role in downstream diagnosis and treatment. Recent years, deep neural networks have made groundbreaking success in medical image segmentation problem. However, due to the high variance in instrumental parameters, experimental protocols, and subject appearances, the generalization of deep learning models is often hindered by the inconsistency in medical images generated by different machines and hospitals. In this work, we present StyleSegor, an efficient and easy-to-use strategy to alleviate this inconsistency issue. Specifically, neural style transfer algorithm is applied to unlabeled data in order to minimize the differences in image properties including brightness, contrast, texture, etc. between the labeled and unlabeled data. We also apply probabilistic adjustment on the network output and integrate multiple predictions through ensemble learning. On a publicly available whole heart segmentation benchmarking dataset from MICCAI HVSMR 2016 challenge, we have demonstrated an elevated dice accuracy surpassing current state-of-the-art method and notably, an improvement of the total score by 29.91\%. StyleSegor is thus corroborated to be an accurate tool for 3D whole heart segmentation especially on highly inconsistent data, and is available at https://github.com/horsepurve/StyleSegor.
The segmentation of digital images is one of the essential steps in image processing or a computer vision system. It helps in separating the pixels into different regions according to their intensity level. A large number of segmentation techniques have been proposed, and a few of them use complex computational operations. Among all, the most straightforward procedure that can be easily implemented is thresholding. In this paper, we present a unique heuristic approach for image segmentation that automatically determines multilevel thresholds by sampling the histogram of a digital image. Our approach emphasis on selecting a valley as optimal threshold values. We demonstrated that our approach outperforms the popular Otsu's method in terms of CPU computational time. We demonstrated that our approach outperforms the popular Otsu's method in terms of CPU computational time. We observed a maximum speed-up of 35.58x and a minimum speed-up of 10.21x on popular image processing benchmarks. To demonstrate the correctness of our approach in determining threshold values, we compute PSNR, SSIM, and FSIM values to compare with the values obtained by Otsu's method. This evaluation shows that our approach is comparable and better in many cases as compared to well known Otsu's method.
Yes, it can. Data augmentation is perhaps the oldest preprocessing step in computer vision literature. Almost every computer vision model trained on imaging data uses some form of augmentation. In this paper, we use the inter-vertebral disk segmentation task alongside a deep residual U-Net as the learning model, to explore the effectiveness of augmentation. In the extreme, we observed that a model trained on patches extracted from just one scan, with each patch augmented 50 times; achieved a Dice score of 0.73 in a validation set of 40 cases. Qualitative evaluation indicated a clinically usable segmentation algorithm, which appropriately segments regions of interest, alongside limited false positive specks. When the initial patches are extracted from nine scans the average Dice coefficient jumps to 0.86 and most of the false positives disappear. While this still falls short of state-of-the-art deep learning based segmentation of discs reported in literature, qualitative examination reveals that it does yield segmentation, which can be amended by expert clinicians with minimal effort to generate additional data for training improved deep models. Extreme augmentation of training data, should thus be construed as a strategy for training deep learning based algorithms, when very little manually annotated data is available to work with. Models trained with extreme augmentation can then be used to accelerate the generation of manually labelled data. Hence, we show that extreme augmentation can be a valuable tool in addressing scaling up small imaging data sets to address medical image segmentation tasks.
Deep learning based medical image segmentation models usually require large datasets with high-quality dense segmentations to train, which are very time-consuming and expensive to prepare. One way to tackle this challenge is by using the mixed-supervised learning framework, in which only a part of data is densely annotated with segmentation label and the rest is weakly labeled with bounding boxes. The model is trained jointly in a multi-task learning setting. In this paper, we propose Mixed-Supervised Dual-Network (MSDN), a novel architecture which consists of two separate networks for the detection and segmentation tasks respectively, and a series of connection modules between the layers of the two networks. These connection modules are used to transfer useful information from the auxiliary detection task to help the segmentation task. We propose to use a recent technique called "Squeeze and Excitation" in the connection module to boost the transfer. We conduct experiments on two medical image segmentation datasets. The proposed MSDN model outperforms multiple baselines.
In Computer Vision, edge detection is one of the favored approaches for feature and object detection in images since it provides information about their objects boundaries. Other region-based approaches use probabilistic analysis such as clustering and Markov random fields, but those methods cannot be used to analyze edges and their interaction. In fact, only image segmentation can produce regions based on edges, but it requires thresholding by simply separating the regions into binary in-out information. Hence, there is currently a gap between edge-based and region-based algorithms, since edges cannot be used to study the properties of a region and vice versa. The objective of this paper is to present a novel spatial probability analysis that allows determining the probability of inclusion inside a set of partial contours (strokes). To answer this objective, we developed a new approach that uses electromagnetic convolutions and repulsion optimization to compute the required probabilities. Hence, it becomes possible to generate a continuous space of probability based only on the edge information, thus bridging the gap between the edge-based methods and the region-based methods. The developed method is consistent with the fundamental properties of inclusion probabilities and its results are validated by comparing an image with the probability-based estimation given by our algorithm. The method can also be generalized to take into consideration the intensity of the edges or to be used for 3D shapes. This is the first documented method that allows computing a space of probability based on interacting edges, which opens the path
We present a Deep Differentiable Simplex Layer (DDSL) for neural networks for geometric deep learning. The DDSL is a differentiable layer compatible with deep neural networks for bridging simplex mesh-based geometry representations (point clouds, line mesh, triangular mesh, tetrahedral mesh) with raster images (e.g., 2D/3D grids). The DDSL uses Non-Uniform Fourier Transform (NUFT) to perform differentiable, efficient, anti-aliased rasterization of simplex-based signals. We present a complete theoretical framework for the process as well as an efficient backpropagation algorithm. Compared to previous differentiable renderers and rasterizers, the DDSL generalizes to arbitrary simplex degrees and dimensions. In particular, we explore its applications to 2D shapes and illustrate two applications of this method: (1) mesh editing and optimization guided by neural network outputs, and (2) using DDSL for a differentiable rasterization loss to facilitate end-to-end training of polygon generators. We are able to validate the effectiveness of gradient-based shape optimization with the example of airfoil optimization, and using the differentiable rasterization loss to facilitate end-to-end training, we surpass state of the art for polygonal image segmentation given ground-truth bounding boxes.
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have the capability of synthesizing images, which have been successfully applied to medical image synthesis tasks. However, most of existing methods merely consider the global contextual information and ignore the fine foreground structures, e.g., vessel, skeleton, which may contain diagnostic indicators for medical image analysis. Inspired by human painting procedure, which is composed of stroking and color rendering steps, we propose a Sketching-rendering Unconditional Generative Adversarial Network (SkrGAN) to introduce a sketch prior constraint to guide the medical image generation. In our SkrGAN, a sketch guidance module is utilized to generate a high quality structural sketch from random noise, then a color render mapping is used to embed the sketch-based representations and resemble the background appearances. Experimental results show that the proposed SkrGAN achieves the state-of-the-art results in synthesizing images for various image modalities, including retinal color fundus, X-Ray, Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). In addition, we also show that the performances of medical image segmentation method have been improved by using our synthesized images as data augmentation.
We propose a novel semi-supervised image segmentation method that simultaneously optimizes a supervised segmentation and an unsupervised reconstruction objectives. The reconstruction objective uses an attention mechanism that separates the reconstruction of image areas corresponding to different classes. The proposed approach was evaluated on two applications: brain tumor and white matter hyperintensities segmentation. Our method, trained on unlabeled and a small number of labeled images, outperformed supervised CNNs trained with the same number of images and CNNs pre-trained on unlabeled data. In ablation experiments, we observed that the proposed attention mechanism substantially improves segmentation performance. We explore two multi-task training strategies: joint training and alternating training. Alternating training requires fewer hyperparameters and achieves a better, more stable performance than joint training. Finally, we analyze the features learned by different methods and find that the attention mechanism helps to learn more discriminative features in the deeper layers of encoders.
Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are state-of-the-art for semantic image segmentation, but typically require many labeled training samples. Obtaining 3D segmentations of medical images for supervised training is difficult and labor intensive. Motivated by classical approaches for joint segmentation and registration we therefore propose a deep learning framework that jointly learns networks for image registration and image segmentation. In contrast to previous work on deep unsupervised image registration, which showed the benefit of weak supervision via image segmentations, our approach can use existing segmentations when available and computes them via the segmentation network otherwise, thereby providing the same registration benefit. Conversely, segmentation network training benefits from the registration, which essentially provides a realistic form of data augmentation. Experiments on knee and brain 3D magnetic resonance (MR) images show that our approach achieves large simultaneous improvements of segmentation and registration accuracy (over independently trained networks) and allows training high-quality models with very limited training data. Specifically, in a one-shot-scenario (with only one manually labeled image) our approach increases Dice scores (%) over an unsupervised registration network by 2.7 and 1.8 on the knee and brain images respectively.
The task of medical image segmentation commonly involves an image reconstruction step to convert acquired raw data to images before any analysis. However, noises, artifacts and loss of information due to the reconstruction process are almost inevitable, which compromises the final performance of segmentation. We present a novel learning framework that performs magnetic resonance brain image segmentation directly from k-space data. The end-to-end framework consists of a unique task-driven attention module that recurrently utilizes intermediate segmentation estimation to facilitate image-domain feature extraction from the raw data, thus closely bridging the reconstruction and the segmentation tasks. In addition, to address the challenge of manual labeling, we introduce a novel workflow to generate labeled training data for segmentation by exploiting imaging modality simulators and digital phantoms. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms several state-of-the-art methods.
Over the last two decades, deep learning has transformed the field of computer vision. Deep convolutional networks were successfully applied to learn different vision tasks such as image classification, image segmentation, object detection and many more. By transferring the knowledge learned by deep models on large generic datasets, researchers were further able to create fine-tuned models for other more specific tasks. Recently this idea was applied for regressing the absolute camera pose from an RGB image. Although the resulting accuracy was sub-optimal, compared to classic feature-based solutions, this effort led to a surge of learning-based pose estimation methods. Here, we review deep learning approaches for camera pose estimation. We describe key methods in the field and identify trends aiming at improving the original deep pose regression solution. We further provide an extensive cross-comparison of existing learning-based pose estimators, together with practical notes on their execution for reproducibility purposes. Finally, we discuss emerging solutions and potential future research directions.
Deep learning approaches have achieved state-of-the-art performance in cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) image segmentation. However, most approaches have focused on learning image intensity features for segmentation, whereas the incorporation of anatomical shape priors has received less attention. In this paper, we combine a multi-task deep learning approach with atlas propagation to develop a shape-constrained bi-ventricular segmentation pipeline for short-axis CMR volumetric images. The pipeline first employs a fully convolutional network (FCN) that learns segmentation and landmark localisation tasks simultaneously. The architecture of the proposed FCN uses a 2.5D representation, thus combining the computational advantage of 2D FCNs networks and the capability of addressing 3D spatial consistency without compromising segmentation accuracy. Moreover, the refinement step is designed to explicitly enforce a shape constraint and improve segmentation quality. This step is effective for overcoming image artefacts (e.g. due to different breath-hold positions and large slice thickness), which preclude the creation of anatomically meaningful 3D cardiac shapes. The proposed pipeline is fully automated, due to network's ability to infer landmarks, which are then used downstream in the pipeline to initialise atlas propagation. We validate the pipeline on 1831 healthy subjects and 649 subjects with pulmonary hypertension. Extensive numerical experiments on the two datasets demonstrate that our proposed method is robust and capable of producing accurate, high-resolution and anatomically smooth bi-ventricular 3D models, despite the artefacts in input CMR volumes.
In the recent years, convolutional neural networks have transformed the field of medical image analysis due to their capacity to learn discriminative image features for a variety of classification and regression tasks. However, successfully learning these features requires a large amount of manually annotated data, which is expensive to acquire and limited by the available resources of expert image analysts. Therefore, unsupervised, weakly-supervised and self-supervised feature learning techniques receive a lot of attention, which aim to utilise the vast amount of available data, while at the same time avoid or substantially reduce the effort of manual annotation. In this paper, we propose a novel way for training a cardiac MR image segmentation network, in which features are learnt in a self-supervised manner by predicting anatomical positions. The anatomical positions serve as a supervisory signal and do not require extra manual annotation. We demonstrate that this seemingly simple task provides a strong signal for feature learning and with self-supervised learning, we achieve a high segmentation accuracy that is better than or comparable to a U-net trained from scratch, especially at a small data setting. When only five annotated subjects are available, the proposed method improves the mean Dice metric from 0.811 to 0.852 for short-axis image segmentation, compared to the baseline U-net.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) show outstanding performance in many image processing problems, such as image recognition, object detection and image segmentation. Semantic segmentation is a very challenging task that requires recognizing, understanding what's in the image in pixel level. Though the state of the art has been greatly improved by CNNs, there is no explicit connections between prediction of neighbouring pixels. That is, spatial regularity of the segmented objects is still a problem for CNNs. In this paper, we propose a method to add spatial regularization to the segmented objects. In our method, the spatial regularization such as total variation (TV) can be easily integrated into CNN network. It can help CNN find a better local optimum and make the segmentation results more robust to noise. We apply our proposed method to Unet and Segnet, which are well established CNNs for image segmentation, and test them on WBC, CamVid and SUN-RGBD datasets, respectively. The results show that the regularized networks not only could provide better segmentation results with regularization effect than the original ones but also have certain robustness to noise.
This paper presents a novel unsupervised domain adaptation framework, called Synergistic Image and Feature Adaptation (SIFA), to effectively tackle the problem of domain shift. Domain adaptation has become an important and hot topic in recent studies on deep learning, aiming to recover performance degradation when applying the neural networks to new testing domains. Our proposed SIFA is an elegant learning diagram which presents synergistic fusion of adaptations from both image and feature perspectives. In particular, we simultaneously transform the appearance of images across domains and enhance domain-invariance of the extracted features towards the segmentation task. The feature encoder layers are shared by both perspectives to grasp their mutual benefits during the end-to-end learning procedure. Without using any annotation from the target domain, the learning of our unified model is guided by adversarial losses, with multiple discriminators employed from various aspects. We have extensively validated our method with a challenging application of cross-modality medical image segmentation of cardiac structures. Experimental results demonstrate that our SIFA model recovers the degraded performance from 17.2% to 73.0%, and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin.
Encoder-decoder architectures are widely adopted for medical image segmentation tasks. With the lateral skip connection, the models can obtain and fuse both semantic and resolution information in deep layers to achieve more accurate segmentation performance. However, in many applications (e.g., blurry boundary images), these models often cannot precisely locate complex boundaries and segment tiny isolated parts. To solve this challenging problem, we firstly analyze why simple skip connections are not enough to help accurately locate indistinct boundaries and argue that it is due to the fuzzy information in the skip connection provided in the encoder layers. Then we propose a semantic-guided encoder feature learning strategy to learn both high resolution and rich semantic encoder features so that we can more accurately locate the blurry boundaries, which can also enhance the network by selectively learning discriminative features. Besides, we further propose a soft contour constraint mechanism to model the blurry boundary detection. Experimental results on real clinical datasets show that our proposed method can achieve state-of-the-art segmentation accuracy, especially for the blurry regions. Further analysis also indicates that our proposed network components indeed contribute to the improvement of performance. Experiments on additional datasets validate the generalization ability of our proposed method.
Methods that move towards less supervised scenarios are key for image segmentation, as dense labels demand significant human intervention. Generally, the annotation burden is mitigated by labeling datasets with weaker forms of supervision, e.g. image-level labels or bounding boxes. Another option are semi-supervised settings, that commonly leverage a few strong annotations and a huge number of unlabeled/weakly-labeled data. In this paper, we revisit semi-supervised segmentation schemes and narrow down significantly the annotation budget (in terms of total labeling time of the training set) compared to previous approaches. With a very simple pipeline, we demonstrate that at low annotation budgets, semi-supervised methods outperform by a wide margin weakly-supervised ones for both semantic and instance segmentation. Our approach also outperforms previous semi-supervised works at a much reduced labeling cost. We present results for the Pascal VOC benchmark and unify weakly and semi-supervised approaches by considering the total annotation budget, thus allowing a fairer comparison between methods.
Since acquiring pixel-wise annotations for training convolutional neural networks for semantic image segmentation is time-consuming, weakly supervised approaches that only require class tags have been proposed. In this work, we propose another form of supervision, namely image captions as they can be found on the Internet. These captions have two advantages. They do not require additional curation as it is the case for the clean class tags used by current weakly supervised approaches and they provide textual context for the classes present in an image. To leverage such textual context, we deploy a multi-modal network that learns a joint embedding of the visual representation of the image and the textual representation of the caption. The network estimates text activation maps (TAMs) for class names as well as compound concepts, i.e. combinations of nouns and their attributes. The TAMs of compound concepts describing classes of interest substantially improve the quality of the estimated class activation maps which are then used to train a network for semantic segmentation. We evaluate our method on the COCO dataset where it achieves state of the art results for weakly supervised image segmentation.
What did it feel like to walk through a city from the past? In this work, we describe Nostalgin (Nostalgia Engine), a method that can faithfully reconstruct cities from historical images. Unlike existing work in city reconstruction, we focus on the task of reconstructing 3D cities from historical images. Working with historical image data is substantially more difficult, as there are significantly fewer buildings available and the details of the camera parameters which captured the images are unknown. Nostalgin can generate a city model even if there is only a single image per facade, regardless of viewpoint or occlusions. To achieve this, our novel architecture combines image segmentation, rectification, and inpainting. We motivate our design decisions with experimental analysis of individual components of our pipeline, and show that we can improve on baselines in both speed and visual realism. We demonstrate the efficacy of our pipeline by recreating two 1940s Manhattan city blocks. We aim to deploy Nostalgin as an open source platform where users can generate immersive historical experiences from their own photos.
In the last few years, Deep Learning (DL) has been showing superior performance in different modalities of biomedical image analysis. Several DL architectures have been proposed for classification, segmentation, and detection tasks in medical imaging and computational pathology. In this paper, we propose a new DL architecture, the NABLA-N network, with better feature fusion techniques in decoding units for dermoscopic image segmentation tasks. The NABLA-N network has several advances for segmentation tasks. First, this model ensures better feature representation for semantic segmentation with a combination of low to high-level feature maps. Second, this network shows better quantitative and qualitative results with the same or fewer network parameters compared to other methods. In addition, the Inception Recurrent Residual Convolutional Neural Network (IRRCNN) model is used for skin cancer classification. The proposed NABLA-N network and IRRCNN models are evaluated for skin cancer segmentation and classification on the benchmark datasets from the International Skin Imaging Collaboration 2018 (ISIC-2018). The experimental results show superior performance on segmentation tasks compared to the Recurrent Residual U-Net (R2U-Net). The classification model shows around 87% testing accuracy for dermoscopic skin cancer classification on ISIC2018 dataset.
Single Image Super Resolution (SISR) techniques based on Super Resolution Convolutional Neural Networks (SRCNN) are applied to micro-computed tomography ({\mu}CT) images of sandstone and carbonate rocks. Digital rock imaging is limited by the capability of the scanning device resulting in trade-offs between resolution and field of view, and super resolution methods tested in this study aim to compensate for these limits. SRCNN models SR-Resnet, Enhanced Deep SR (EDSR), and Wide-Activation Deep SR (WDSR) are used on the Digital Rock Super Resolution 1 (DRSRD1) Dataset of 4x downsampled images, comprising of 2000 high resolution (800x800) raw micro-CT images of Bentheimer sandstone and Estaillades carbonate. The trained models are applied to the validation and test data within the dataset and show a 3-5 dB rise in image quality compared to bicubic interpolation, with all tested models performing within a 0.1 dB range. Difference maps indicate that edge sharpness is completely recovered in images within the scope of the trained model, with only high frequency noise related detail loss. We find that aside from generation of high-resolution images, a beneficial side effect of super resolution methods applied to synthetically downgraded images is the removal of image noise while recovering edgewise sharpness which is beneficial for the segmentation process. The model is also tested against real low-resolution images of Bentheimer rock with image augmentation to account for natural noise and blur. The SRCNN method is shown to act as a preconditioner for image segmentation under these circumstances which naturally leads to further future development
We consider the problem of referring image segmentation. Given an input image and a natural language expression, the goal is to segment the object referred by the language expression in the image. Existing works in this area treat the language expression and the input image separately in their representations. They do not sufficiently capture long-range correlations between these two modalities. In this paper, we propose a cross-modal self-attention (CMSA) module that effectively captures the long-range dependencies between linguistic and visual features. Our model can adaptively focus on informative words in the referring expression and important regions in the input image. In addition, we propose a gated multi-level fusion module to selectively integrate self-attentive cross-modal features corresponding to different levels in the image. This module controls the information flow of features at different levels. We validate the proposed approach on four evaluation datasets. Our proposed approach consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.
Referring object detection and referring image segmentation are important tasks that require joint understanding of visual information and natural language. Yet there has been evidence that current benchmark datasets suffer from bias, and current state-of-the-art models cannot be easily evaluated on their intermediate reasoning process. To address these issues and complement similar efforts in visual question answering, we build CLEVR-Ref+, a synthetic diagnostic dataset for referring expression comprehension. The precise locations and attributes of the objects are readily available, and the referring expressions are automatically associated with functional programs. The synthetic nature allows control over dataset bias (through sampling strategy), and the modular programs enable intermediate reasoning ground truth without human annotators. In addition to evaluating several state-of-the-art models on CLEVR-Ref+, we also propose IEP-Ref, a module network approach that significantly outperforms other models on our dataset. In particular, we present two interesting and important findings using IEP-Ref: (1) the module trained to transform feature maps into segmentation masks can be attached to any intermediate module to reveal the entire reasoning process step-by-step; (2) even if all training data has at least one object referred, IEP-Ref can correctly predict no-foreground when presented with false-premise referring expressions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first direct and quantitative proof that neural modules behave in the way they are intended.
We propose an active learning approach to image segmentation that exploits geometric priors to speed up and streamline the annotation process. It can be applied for both background-foreground and multi-class segmentation tasks in 2D images and 3D image volumes. Our approach combines geometric smoothness priors in the image space with more traditional uncertainty measures to estimate which pixels or voxels are the most informative, and thus should to be annotated next. For multi-class settings, we additionally introduce two novel criteria for uncertainty. In the 3D case, we use the resulting uncertainty measure to select voxels lying on a planar patch, which makes batch annotation much more convenient for the end user compared to the setting where voxels are randomly distributed in a volume. The planar patch is found using a branch-and-bound algorithm that looks for a 2D patch in a 3D volume where the most informative instances are located. We evaluate our approach on Electron Microscopy and Magnetic Resonance image volumes, as well as on regular images of horses and faces. We demonstrate a substantial performance increase over other approaches thanks to the use of geometric priors.
We propose a method to classify cardiac pathology based on a novel approach to extract image derived features to characterize the shape and motion of the heart. An original semi-supervised learning procedure, which makes efficient use of a large amount of non-segmented images and a small amount of images segmented manually by experts, is developed to generate pixel-wise apparent flow between two time points of a 2D+t cine MRI image sequence. Combining the apparent flow maps and cardiac segmentation masks, we obtain a local apparent flow corresponding to the 2D motion of myocardium and ventricular cavities. This leads to the generation of time series of the radius and thickness of myocardial segments to represent cardiac motion. These time series of motion features are reliable and explainable characteristics of pathological cardiac motion. Furthermore, they are combined with shape-related features to classify cardiac pathologies. Using only nine feature values as input, we propose an explainable, simple and flexible model for pathology classification. On ACDC training set and testing set, the model achieves 95% and 94% respectively as classification accuracy. Its performance is hence comparable to that of the state-of-the-art. Comparison with various other models is performed to outline some advantages of our model.
In this paper, we investigate how to learn a suitable representation of satellite image time series in an unsupervised manner by leveraging large amounts of unlabeled data. Additionally , we aim to disentangle the representation of time series into two representations: a shared representation that captures the common information between the images of a time series and an exclusive representation that contains the specific information of each image of the time series. To address these issues, we propose a model that combines a novel component called cross-domain autoencoders with the variational autoencoder (VAE) and generative ad-versarial network (GAN) methods. In order to learn disentangled representations of time series, our model learns the multimodal image-to-image translation task. We train our model using satellite image time series from the Sentinel-2 mission. Several experiments are carried out to evaluate the obtained representations. We show that these disentangled representations can be very useful to perform multiple tasks such as image classification, image retrieval, image segmentation and change detection.
In this paper, we propose to tackle the problem of reducing discrepancies between multiple domains referred to as multi-source domain adaptation and consider it under the target shift assumption: in all domains we aim to solve a classification problem with the same output classes, but with labels' proportions differing across them. This problem, generally ignored in the vast majority papers on domain adaptation papers, is nevertheless critical in real-world applications, and we theoretically show its impact on the adaptation success. To address this issue, we design a method based on optimal transport, a theory that has been successfully used to tackle adaptation problems in machine learning. Our method performs multi-source adaptation and target shift correction simultaneously by learning the class probabilities of the unlabeled target sample and the coupling allowing to align two (or more) probability distributions. Experiments on both synthetic and real-world data related to satellite image segmentation task show the superiority of the proposed method over the state-of-the-art.
Medical image segmentation is an important step in medical image analysis. With the rapid development of convolutional neural network in image processing, deep learning has been used for medical image segmentation, such as optic disc segmentation, blood vessel detection, lung segmentation, cell segmentation, etc. Previously, U-net based approaches have been proposed. However, the consecutive pooling and strided convolutional operations lead to the loss of some spatial information. In this paper, we propose a context encoder network (referred to as CE-Net) to capture more high-level information and preserve spatial information for 2D medical image segmentation. CE-Net mainly contains three major components: a feature encoder module, a context extractor and a feature decoder module. We use pretrained ResNet block as the fixed feature extractor. The context extractor module is formed by a newly proposed dense atrous convolution (DAC) block and residual multi-kernel pooling (RMP) block. We applied the proposed CE-Net to different 2D medical image segmentation tasks. Comprehensive results show that the proposed method outperforms the original U-Net method and other state-of-the-art methods for optic disc segmentation, vessel detection, lung segmentation, cell contour segmentation and retinal optical coherence tomography layer segmentation.
The main obstacle to weakly supervised semantic image segmentation is the difficulty of obtaining pixel-level information from coarse image-level annotations. Most methods based on image-level annotations use localization maps obtained from the classifier, but these only focus on the small discriminative parts of objects and do not capture precise boundaries. FickleNet explores diverse combinations of locations on feature maps created by generic deep neural networks. It selects hidden units randomly and then uses them to obtain activation scores for image classification. FickleNet implicitly learns the coherence of each location in the feature maps, resulting in a localization map which identifies both discriminative and other parts of objects. The ensemble effects are obtained from a single network by selecting random hidden unit pairs, which means that a variety of localization maps are generated from a single image. Our approach does not require any additional training steps and only adds a simple layer to a standard convolutional neural network; nevertheless it outperforms recent comparable techniques on the Pascal VOC 2012 benchmark in both weakly and semi-supervised settings.
This work examines the use of a fully convolutional net (FCN) to find an image segment, given a pixel within this segment region. The net receives an image, a point in the image and a region of interest (RoI ) mask. The net output is a binary mask of the segment in which the point is located. The region where the segment can be found is contained within the input RoI mask. Full image segmentation can be achieved by running this net sequentially, region-by-region on the image, and stitching the output segments into a single segmentation map. This simple method addresses two major challenges of image segmentation: 1) Segmentation of unknown categories that were not included in the training set. 2) Segmentation of both individual object instances (things) and non-objects (stuff), such as sky and vegetation. Hence, if the pointer pixel is located within a person in a group, the net will output a mask that covers that individual person; if the pointer point is located within the sky region, the net returns the region of the sky in the image. This is true even if no example for sky or person appeared in the training set. The net was tested and trained on the COCO panoptic dataset and achieved 67% IOU for segmentation of familiar classes (that were part of the net training set) and 53% IOU for segmentation of unfamiliar classes (that were not included in the training).
The encoder-decoder framework is state-of-the-art for offline semantic image segmentation. Since the rise in autonomous systems, real-time computation is increasingly desirable. In this paper, we introduce fast segmentation convolutional neural network (Fast-SCNN), an above real-time semantic segmentation model on high resolution image data (1024x2048px) suited to efficient computation on embedded devices with low memory. Building on existing two-branch methods for fast segmentation, we introduce our `learning to downsample' module which computes low-level features for multiple resolution branches simultaneously. Our network combines spatial detail at high resolution with deep features extracted at lower resolution, yielding an accuracy of 68.0% mean intersection over union at 123.5 frames per second on Cityscapes. We also show that large scale pre-training is unnecessary. We thoroughly validate our metric in experiments with ImageNet pre-training and the coarse labeled data of Cityscapes. Finally, we show even faster computation with competitive results on subsampled inputs, without any network modifications.
Deep convolutional networks have achieved the state-of-the-art for semantic image segmentation tasks. However, training these networks requires access to densely labeled images, which are known to be very expensive to obtain. On the other hand, the web provides an almost unlimited source of images annotated at the image level. How can one utilize this much larger weakly annotated set for tasks that require dense labeling? Prior work often relied on localization cues, such as saliency maps, objectness priors, bounding boxes etc., to address this challenging problem. In this paper, we propose a model that generates auxiliary labels for each image, while simultaneously forcing the output of the CNN to satisfy the mean-field constraints imposed by a conditional random field. We show that one can enforce the CRF constraints by forcing the distribution at each pixel to be close to the distribution of its neighbors. This is in stark contrast with methods that compute a recursive expansion of the mean-field distribution using a recurrent architecture and train the resultant distribution. Instead, the proposed model adds an extra loss term to the output of the CNN, and hence, is faster than recursive implementations. We achieve the state-of-the-art for weakly supervised semantic image segmentation on VOC 2012 dataset, assuming no manually labeled pixel level information is available. Furthermore, the incorporation of conditional random fields in CNN incurs little extra time during training.
Background: The trend towards large-scale studies including population imaging poses new challenges in terms of quality control (QC). This is a particular issue when automatic processing tools, e.g. image segmentation methods, are employed to derive quantitative measures or biomarkers for later analyses. Manual inspection and visual QC of each segmentation isn't feasible at large scale. However, it's important to be able to automatically detect when a segmentation method fails so as to avoid inclusion of wrong measurements into subsequent analyses which could lead to incorrect conclusions. Methods: To overcome this challenge, we explore an approach for predicting segmentation quality based on Reverse Classification Accuracy, which enables us to discriminate between successful and failed segmentations on a per-cases basis. We validate this approach on a new, large-scale manually-annotated set of 4,800 cardiac magnetic resonance scans. We then apply our method to a large cohort of 7,250 cardiac MRI on which we have performed manual QC. Results: We report results used for predicting segmentation quality metrics including Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) and surface-distance measures. As initial validation, we present data for 400 scans demonstrating 99% accuracy for classifying low and high quality segmentations using predicted DSC scores. As further validation we show high correlation between real and predicted scores and 95% classification accuracy on 4,800 scans for which manual segmentations were available. We mimic real-world application of the method on 7,250 cardiac MRI where we show good agreement between predicted quality metrics and manual visual QC scores. Conclusions: We show that RCA
Ultrasound image compression by preserving speckle-based key information is a challenging task. In this paper, we introduce an ultrasound image compression framework with the ability to retain realism of speckle appearance despite achieving very high-density compression factors. The compressor employs a tissue segmentation method, transmitting segments along with transducer frequency, number of samples and image size as essential information required for decompression. The decompressor is based on a convolutional network trained to generate patho-realistic ultrasound images which convey essential information pertinent to tissue pathology visible in the images. We demonstrate generalizability of the building blocks using two variants to build the compressor. We have evaluated the quality of decompressed images using distortion losses as well as perception loss and compared it with other off the shelf solutions. The proposed method achieves a compression ratio of $725:1$ while preserving the statistical distribution of speckles. This enables image segmentation on decompressed images to achieve dice score of $0.89 \pm 0.11$, which evidently is not so accurately achievable when images are compressed with current standards like JPEG, JPEG 2000, WebP and BPG. We envision this frame work to serve as a roadmap for speckle image compression standards.
Optimal decision making with limited or no information in stochastic environments where multiple agents interact is a challenging topic in the realm of artificial intelligence. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a popular approach for arriving at optimal strategies by predicating stimuli, such as the reward for following a strategy, on experience. RL is heavily explored in the single-agent context, but is a nascent concept in multiagent problems. To this end, I propose several principled model-free and partially model-based reinforcement learning approaches for several multiagent settings. In the realm of normative reinforcement learning, I introduce scalable extensions to Monte Carlo exploring starts for partially observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDP), dubbed MCES-P, where I expand the theory and algorithm to the multiagent setting. I first examine MCES-P with probably approximately correct (PAC) bounds in the context of multiagent setting, showing MCESP+PAC holds in the presence of other agents. I then propose a more sample-efficient methodology for antagonistic settings, MCESIP+PAC. For cooperative settings, I extend MCES-P to the Multiagent POMDP, dubbed MCESMP+PAC. I then explore the use of reinforcement learning as a methodology in searching for optima in realistic and latent model environments. First, I explore a parameterized Q-learning approach in modeling humans learning to reason in an uncertain, multiagent environment. Next, I propose an implementation of MCES-P, along with image segmentation, to create an adaptive team-based reinforcement learning technique to positively identify the presence of phenotypically-expressed water and pathogen stress in crop fields.
Recently there has been a lot of work on pruning filters from deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with the intention of reducing computations.The key idea is to rank the filters based on a certain criterion (say, l1-norm) and retain only the top ranked filters. Once the low scoring filters are pruned away the remainder of the network is fine tuned and is shown to give performance comparable to the original unpruned network. In this work, we report experiments which suggest that the comparable performance of the pruned network is not due to the specific criterion chosen but due to the inherent plasticity of deep neural networks which allows them to recover from the loss of pruned filters once the rest of the filters are fine-tuned. Specifically we show counter-intuitive results wherein by randomly pruning 25-50% filters from deep CNNs we are able to obtain the same performance as obtained by using state-of-the-art pruning methods. We empirically validate our claims by doing an exhaustive evaluation with VGG-16 and ResNet-50. We also evaluate a real world scenario where a CNN trained on all 1000 ImageNet classes needs to be tested on only a small set of classes at test time (say, only animals). We create a new benchmark dataset from ImageNet to evaluate such class specific pruning and show that even here a random pruning strategy gives close to state-of-the-art performance. Unlike existing approaches which mainly focus on the task of image classification, in this work we also report results on object
Deep neural network models used for medical image segmentation are large because they are trained with high-resolution three-dimensional (3D) images. Graphics processing units (GPUs) are widely used to accelerate the trainings. However, the memory on a GPU is not large enough to train the models. A popular approach to tackling this problem is patch-based method, which divides a large image into small patches and trains the models with these small patches. However, this method would degrade the segmentation quality if a target object spans multiple patches. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for 3D medical image segmentation that utilizes the data-swapping, which swaps out intermediate data from GPU memory to CPU memory to enlarge the effective GPU memory size, for training high-resolution 3D medical images without patching. We carefully tuned parameters in the data-swapping method to obtain the best training performance for 3D U-Net, a widely used deep neural network model for medical image segmentation. We applied our tuning to train 3D U-Net with full-size images of 192 x 192 x 192 voxels in brain tumor dataset. As a result, communication overhead, which is the most important issue, was reduced by 17.1%. Compared with the patch-based method for patches of 128 x 128 x 128 voxels, our training for full-size images achieved improvement on the mean Dice score by 4.48% and 5.32 % for detecting whole tumor sub-region and tumor core sub-region, respectively. The total training time was reduced from 164 hours to 47 hours, resulting in 3.53
Fully convolutional deep neural networks have been asserted to be fast and precise frameworks with great potential in image segmentation. One of the major challenges in training such networks raises when data is unbalanced, which is common in many medical imaging applications such as lesion segmentation where lesion class voxels are often much lower in numbers than non-lesion voxels. A trained network with unbalanced data may make predictions with high precision and low recall, being severely biased towards the non-lesion class which is particularly undesired in most medical applications where FNs are more important than FPs. Various methods have been proposed to address this problem, more recently similarity loss functions and focal loss. In this work we trained fully convolutional deep neural networks using an asymmetric similarity loss function to mitigate the issue of data imbalance and achieve much better tradeoff between precision and recall. To this end, we developed a 3D FC-DenseNet with large overlapping image patches as input and an asymmetric similarity loss layer based on Tversky index (using Fbeta scores). We used large overlapping image patches as inputs for intrinsic and extrinsic data augmentation, a patch selection algorithm, and a patch prediction fusion strategy using B-spline weighted soft voting to account for the uncertainty of prediction in patch borders. We applied this method to MS lesion segmentation based on two different datasets of MSSEG and ISBI longitudinal MS lesion segmentation challenge, where we achieved top performance in both challenges. Our network trained with focal loss ranked first
3D image segmentation plays an important role in biomedical image analysis. Many 2D and 3D deep learning models have achieved state-of-the-art segmentation performance on 3D biomedical image datasets. Yet, 2D and 3D models have their own strengths and weaknesses, and by unifying them together, one may be able to achieve more accurate results. In this paper, we propose a new ensemble learning framework for 3D biomedical image segmentation that combines the merits of 2D and 3D models. First, we develop a fully convolutional network based meta-learner to learn how to improve the results from 2D and 3D models (base-learners). Then, to minimize over-fitting for our sophisticated meta-learner, we devise a new training method that uses the results of the base-learners as multiple versions of "ground truths". Furthermore, since our new meta-learner training scheme does not depend on manual annotation, it can utilize abundant unlabeled 3D image data to further improve the model. Extensive experiments on two public datasets (the HVSMR 2016 Challenge dataset and the mouse piriform cortex dataset) show that our approach is effective under fully-supervised, semi-supervised, and transductive settings, and attains superior performance over state-of-the-art image segmentation methods.
Radiologist is "doctor's doctor", biomedical image segmentation plays a central role in quantitative analysis, clinical diagnosis, and medical intervention. In the light of the fully convolutional networks (FCN) and U-Net, deep convolutional networks (DNNs) have made significant contributions in biomedical image segmentation applications. In this paper, based on U-Net, we propose MDUnet, a multi-scale densely connected U-net for biomedical image segmentation. we propose three different multi-scale dense connections for U shaped architectures encoder, decoder and across them. The highlights of our architecture is directly fuses the neighboring different scale feature maps from both higher layers and lower layers to strengthen feature propagation in current layer. Which can largely improves the information flow encoder, decoder and across them. Multi-scale dense connections, which means containing shorter connections between layers close to the input and output, also makes much deeper U-net possible. We adopt the optimal model based on the experiment and propose a novel Multi-scale Dense U-Net (MDU-Net) architecture with quantization. Which reduce overfitting in MDU-Net for better accuracy. We evaluate our purpose model on the MICCAI 2015 Gland Segmentation dataset (GlaS). The three multi-scale dense connections improve U-net performance by up to 1.8% on test A and 3.5% on test B in the MICCAI Gland dataset. Meanwhile the MDU-net with quantization achieves the superiority over U-Net performance by up to 3% on test A and 4.1% on test B.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have become increasingly popular for solving a variety of computer vision tasks, ranging from image classification to image segmentation. Recently, autonomous vehicles have created a demand for depth information, which is often obtained using hardware sensors such as Light detection and ranging (LIDAR). Although it can provide precise distance measurements, most LIDARs are still far too expensive to sell in mass-produced consumer vehicles, which has motivated methods to generate depth information from commodity automotive sensors like cameras. In this paper, we propose an approach called Deep Sensor Cloning (DSC). The idea is to use Convolutional Neural Networks in conjunction with inexpensive sensors to replicate the 3D point-clouds that are created by expensive LIDARs. To accomplish this, we develop a new dataset (DSDepth) and a new family of CNN architectures (DSCnets). While previous tasks such as KITTI depth prediction use an interpolated RGB-D images as ground-truth for training, we instead use DSCnets to directly predict LIDAR point-clouds. When we compare the output of our models to a $75,000 LIDAR, we find that our most accurate DSCnet achieves a relative error of 5.77% using a single camera and 4.69% using stereo cameras.
The training of many existing end-to-end steering angle prediction models heavily relies on steering angles as the supervisory signal. Without learning from much richer contexts, these methods are susceptible to the presence of sharp road curves, challenging traffic conditions, strong shadows, and severe lighting changes. In this paper, we considerably improve the accuracy and robustness of predictions through heterogeneous auxiliary networks feature mimicking, a new and effective training method that provides us with much richer contextual signals apart from steering direction. Specifically, we train our steering angle predictive model by distilling multi-layer knowledge from multiple heterogeneous auxiliary networks that perform related but different tasks, e.g., image segmentation or optical flow estimation. As opposed to multi-task learning, our method does not require expensive annotations of related tasks on the target set. This is made possible by applying contemporary off-the-shelf networks on the target set and mimicking their features in different layers after transformation. The auxiliary networks are discarded after training without affecting the runtime efficiency of our model. Our approach achieves a new state-of-the-art on Udacity and Comma.ai, outperforming the previous best by a large margin of 12.8% and 52.1%, respectively. Encouraging results are also shown on Berkeley Deep Drive (BDD) dataset.
State of the art methods for semantic image segmentation are trained in a supervised fashion using a large corpus of fully labeled training images. However, gathering such a corpus is expensive, due to human annotation effort, in contrast to gathering unlabeled data. We propose an active learning-based strategy, called CEREALS, in which a human only has to hand-label a few, automatically selected, regions within an unlabeled image corpus. This minimizes human annotation effort while maximizing the performance of a semantic image segmentation method. The automatic selection procedure is achieved by: a) using a suitable information measure combined with an estimate about human annotation effort, which is inferred from a learned cost model, and b) exploiting the spatial coherency of an image. The performance of CEREALS is demonstrated on Cityscapes, where we are able to reduce the annotation effort to 17%, while keeping 95% of the mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) of a model that was trained with the fully annotated training set of Cityscapes.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the non-invasive modality of choice for body tissue composition analysis due to its excellent soft tissue contrast and lack of ionizing radiation. However, quantification of body composition requires an accurate segmentation of fat, muscle and other tissues from MR images, which remains a challenging goal due to the intensity overlap between them. In this study, we propose a fully automated, data-driven image segmentation platform that addresses multiple difficulties in segmenting MR images such as varying inhomogeneity, non-standardness, and noise, while producing high-quality definition of different tissues. In contrast to most approaches in the literature, we perform segmentation operation by combining three different MRI contrasts and a novel segmentation tool which takes into account variability in the data. The proposed system, based on a novel affinity definition within the fuzzy connectivity (FC) image segmentation family, prevents the need for user intervention and reparametrization of the segmentation algorithms. In order to make the whole system fully automated, we adapt an affinity propagation clustering algorithm to roughly identify tissue regions and image background. We perform a thorough evaluation of the proposed algorithm's individual steps as well as comparison with several approaches from the literature for the main application of muscle/fat separation. Furthermore, whole-body tissue composition and brain tissue delineation were conducted to show the generalization ability of the proposed system. This new automated platform outperforms other state-of-the-art segmentation approaches both in accuracy and efficiency.
The high-fidelity storage of quantum information is crucial for quantum computation and communication. Many experimental platforms for these applications exhibit highly biased noise, with good resilience to spin depolarisation undermined by high dephasing rates. In this work, we demonstrate that the memory performance of a noise-biased trapped-ion qubit memory can be greatly improved by incorporating error correction of dephasing errors through teleportation of the information between two repetition codes written on a pair of qubit registers in the same trap. While the technical requirements of error correction are often considerable, we show that our protocol can be achieved with a single global entangling phase gate of remarkably low fidelity, leveraging the fact that the gate errors are also dominated by dephasing-type processes. By rebalancing the logical spin-flip and dephasing error rates, we show that for realistic parameters our memory can exhibit error rates up to two orders of magnitude lower than the unprotected physical qubits, thus providing a useful means of improving memory performance in trapped ion systems where field-insensitive qubits are not available.
In biomedical studies, researchers are often interested in assessing the association between one or more ordinal explanatory variables and an outcome variable, at the same time adjusting for covariates of any type. The outcome variable may be continuous, binary, or represent censored survival times. In the absence of precise knowledge of the response function, using monotonicity constraints on the ordinal variables improves efficiency in estimating parameters, especially when sample sizes are small. An active set algorithm that can efficiently compute such estimators is proposed, and a characterization of the solution is provided. Having an efficient algorithm at hand is especially relevant when applying likelihood ratio tests in restricted generalized linear models, where one needs the value of the likelihood at the restricted maximizer. The algorithm is illustrated on a real life data set from oncology.
Computing is a high-level process of a physical system. Recent interest in non-standard computing systems, including quantum and biological computers, has brought this physical basis of computing to the forefront. There has been, however, no consensus on how to tell if a given physical system is acting as a computer or not; leading to confusion over novel computational devices, and even claims that every physical event is a computation. In this paper we introduce a formal framework that can be used to determine whether or not a physical system is performing a computation. We demonstrate how the abstract computational level interacts with the physical device level, drawing the comparison with the use of mathematical models to represent physical objects in experimental science. This powerful formulation allows a precise description of the similarities between experiments, computation, simulation, and technology, leading to our central conclusion: physical computing is the use of a physical system to predict the outcome of an abstract evolution. We give conditions that must be satisfied in order for computation to be occurring, and illustrate these with a range of non-standard computing scenarios. The framework also covers broader computing contexts, where there is no obvious human computer user. We define the critical notion of a 'computational entity', and show the role this plays in defining when computing is taking place in physical systems.
We consider distributed optimization in random networks where N nodes cooperatively minimize the sum \sum_{i=1}^N f_i(x) of their individual convex costs. Existing literature proposes distributed gradient-like methods that are computationally cheap and resilient to link failures, but have slow convergence rates. In this paper, we propose accelerated distributed gradient methods that: 1) are resilient to link failures; 2) computationally cheap; and 3) improve convergence rates over other gradient methods. We model the network by a sequence of independent, identically distributed random matrices {W(k)} drawn from the set of symmetric, stochastic matrices with positive diagonals. The network is connected on average and the cost functions are convex, differentiable, with Lipschitz continuous and bounded gradients. We design two distributed Nesterov-like gradient methods that modify the D-NG and D-NC methods that we proposed for static networks. We prove their convergence rates in terms of the expected optimality gap at the cost function. Let k and K be the number of per-node gradient evaluations and per-node communications, respectively. Then the modified D-NG achieves rates O(log k/k) and O(\log K/K), and the modified D-NC rates O(1/k^2) and O(1/K^{2-\xi}), where \xi>0 is arbitrarily small. For comparison, the standard distributed gradient method cannot do better than \Omega(1/k^{2/3}) and \Omega(1/K^{2/3}), on the same class of cost functions (even for static networks). Simulation examples illustrate our analytical findings.
Given a topological modular functor $\mathcal{V}$ in the sense of Walker \cite{Walker}, we construct vector bundles over $\bar{\mathcal{M}}_{g,n}$, whose Chern classes define semi-simple cohomological field theories. This construction depends on a determination of the logarithm of the eigenvalues of the Dehn twist and central element actions. We show that the intersection of the Chern class with the $\psi$-classes in $\bar{\mathcal{M}}_{g,n}$ is computed by the topological recursion of \cite{EOFg}, for a local spectral curve that we describe. In particular, we show how the Verlinde formula for the dimensions $D_{\vec{\lambda}}(\mathbf{\Sigma}_{g,n}) = \dim \mathcal{V}_{\vec{\lambda}}(\mathbf{\Sigma}_{g,n})$ is retrieved from the topological recursion. We analyze the consequences of our result on two examples: modular functors associated to a finite group $G$ (for which $D_{\vec{\lambda}}(\mathbf{\Sigma}_{g,n})$ enumerates certain $G$-principle bundles over a genus $g$ surface with $n$ boundary conditions specified by $\vec{\lambda}$), and the modular functor obtained from Wess-Zumino-Witten conformal field theory associated to a simple, simply-connected Lie group $G$ (for which $\mathcal{V}_{\vec{\lambda}}(\mathbf{\Sigma}_{g,n})$ is the Verlinde bundle).
The interpretation of observed spectra of stars in terms of fundamental stellar properties is a key problem in astrophysics. For FGK-type stars, the radiative transfer models are often computed using the assumption of local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE). Its validity is often questionable and needs to be supported by detailed studies, which build upon the consistent framework of non-LTE. In this review, we outline the theory of non-LTE. The processes causing departures from LTE are introduced qualitatively by their physical interpretation, as well as quantitatively by their impact on the models of stellar spectra and element abundances. We also compile and analyse the most recent results from the literature. In particular, we examine the non-LTE effects for 24 chemical elements for six late-studied FGK-type stars.
A major open question in the study of synchronization of coupled oscillators is to find necessary and sufficient condition for a system to synchronize on a given family of graphs. This is a difficult question that requires to understand exactly how the nonlienar interaction between local entities evolves over the underlying graph. Another open question is to obtain bounds on the time complexity of synchronization, which has important practical implications in clock synchronization algorithms. We address these questions for one-parameter family of discrete pulse-coupled inhibitory oscillatorscalled the $\kappa$-color firefly cellular automata (FCA). Namely, we show that for $\kappa\le 6$, recurrence of each oscillator is a necessary and sufficient condition for synchronization on finite trees, while for $\kappa \ge 7$ this condition is only necessary. As a corollary, we show that any non-synchronizing dynamics for $\kappa\le 6$ on trees decompose into synchronized subtrees partitioned by `dead' oscillators. Furthermore, on trees with diameter $d$ and maximum degree at most $\kappa$, we show that the worst-case number of iterations until synchronization is of order $O(\kappa d)$ for $\kappa\in \{3,4,5\}$, $O(\kappa d^{2})$ for $\kappa=6$, and infinity for $\kappa \ge 7$. Lastly, we report simulation results of FCA on lattices and conjecture that on a finite square lattice, arbitrary initial configuration is synchronized under $\kappa$-color FCA if and only if $\kappa=4$.
We discover new hereditary classes of graphs that are minimal (with respect to set inclusion) of unbounded clique-width. The new examples include split permutation graphs and bichain graphs. Each of these classes is characterised by a finite list of minimal forbidden induced subgraphs. These, therefore, disprove a conjecture due to Daligault, Rao and Thomasse from 2010 claiming that all such minimal classes must be defined by infinitely many forbidden induced subgraphs. In the same paper, Daligault, Rao and Thomasse make another conjecture that every hereditary class of unbounded clique-width must contain a labelled infinite antichain. We show that the two example classes we consider here satisfy this conjecture. Indeed, they each contain a canonical labelled infinite antichain, which leads us to propose a stronger conjecture: that every hereditary class of graphs that is minimal of unbounded clique-width contains a canonical labelled infinite antichain.
Kleisli simulation is a categorical notion introduced by Hasuo to verify finite trace inclusion. They allow us to give definitions of forward and backward simulation for various types of systems. A generic categorical theory behind Kleisli simulation has been developed and it guarantees the soundness of those simulations with respect to finite trace semantics. Moreover, those simulations can be aided by forward partial execution (FPE)---a categorical transformation of systems previously introduced by the authors. In this paper, we give Kleisli simulation a theoretical foundation that assures its soundness also with respect to infinitary traces. There, following Jacobs' work, infinitary trace semantics is characterized as the "largest homomorphism." It turns out that soundness of forward simulations is rather straightforward; that of backward simulation holds too, although it requires certain additional conditions and its proof is more involved. We also show that FPE can be successfully employed in the infinitary trace setting to enhance the applicability of Kleisli simulations as witnesses of trace inclusion. Our framework is parameterized in the monad for branching as well as in the functor for linear-time behaviors; for the former we mainly use the powerset monad (for nondeterminism), the sub-Giry monad (for probability), and the lift monad (for exception).
We establish a Minkowski measurability criterion for a large class of relative fractal drums (or, in short, RFDs), in Euclidean spaces of arbitrary dimension in terms of their complex dimensions, which are defined as the poles of their associated fractal zeta functions. Relative fractal drums represent a far-reaching generalization of bounded subsets of Euclidean spaces as well as of fractal strings studied extensively by the first author and his collaborators. In fact, the Minkowski measurability criterion established here is a generalization of the corresponding one obtained for fractal strings by the first author and M.\ van Frankenhuijsen. Similarly as in the case of fractal strings, the criterion established here is formulated in terms of the locations of the principal complex dimensions associated with the relative drum under consideration. These complex dimensions are defined as poles or, more generally, singularities of the corresponding distance (or tube) zeta function. We also reflect on the notion of gauge-Minkowski measurability of RFDs and establish several results connecting it to the nature and location of the complex dimensions. (This is especially useful when the underlying scaling does not follow a classic power law.) We illustrate our results and their applications by means of a number of interesting examples.
In this paper, we propose a novel label propagation based method for saliency detection. A key observation is that saliency in an image can be estimated by propagating the labels extracted from the most certain background and object regions. For most natural images, some boundary superpixels serve as the background labels and the saliency of other superpixels are determined by ranking their similarities to the boundary labels based on an inner propagation scheme. For images of complex scenes, we further deploy a 3-cue-center-biased objectness measure to pick out and propagate foreground labels. A co-transduction algorithm is devised to fuse both boundary and objectness labels based on an inter propagation scheme. The compactness criterion decides whether the incorporation of objectness labels is necessary, thus greatly enhancing computational efficiency. Results on five benchmark datasets with pixel-wise accurate annotations show that the proposed method achieves superior performance compared with the newest state-of-the-arts in terms of different evaluation metrics.
We construct two error feedback controllers for robust output tracking and disturbance rejection of a regular linear system with nonsmooth reference and disturbance signals. We show that for sufficiently smooth signals the output converges to the reference at a rate that depends on the behaviour of the transfer function of the plant on the imaginary axis. In addition, we construct a controller that can be designed to achieve robustness with respect to a given class of uncertainties in the system, and present a novel controller structure for output tracking and disturbance rejection without the robustness requirement. We also generalize the internal model principle for regular linear systems with boundary disturbance and for controllers with unbounded input and output operators. The construction of controllers is illustrated with an example where we consider output tracking of a nonsmooth periodic reference signal for a two-dimensional heat equation with boundary control and observation, and with periodic disturbances on the boundary.
S-folds are generalizations of orientifolds in type IIB string theory, such that the geometric identifications are accompanied by non-trivial S-duality transformations. They were recently used by Garcia-Etxebarria and Regalado to provide the first construction of four dimensional N=3 superconformal theories. In this note, we classify the different variants of these N=3 preserving S-folds, distinguished by an analog of discrete torsion, using both a direct analysis of the different torsion classes and the compactification of the S-folds to three dimensional M-theory backgrounds. Upon adding D3-branes, these variants lead to different classes of N=3 superconformal field theories. We also analyze the holographic duals of these theories, and in particular clarify the role of discrete gauge and global symmetries in holography. In the main part of the paper, certain properties of cohomology groups associated to the S-folds were conjectured and used. This arXiv version includes an appendix written by Kiyonori Gomi in 2023 providing the proofs of the required properties using the technique of Borel equivariant cohomology, whose brief review is also provided.
The application of nonlinear transformations to a cyclostationary signal for the purpose of revealing hidden periodicities has proven to be useful for applications requiring signal selectivity and noise tolerance. The fact that the hidden periodicities, referred to as cyclic moments, are often compressible in the Fourier domain motivates the use of compressive sensing (CS) as an efficient acquisition protocol for capturing such signals. In this work, we consider the class of Temporal Higher Order Cyclostationary Statistics (THOCS) estimators when CS is used to acquire the cyclostationary signal assuming compressible cyclic moments in the Fourier domain. We develop a theoretical framework for estimating THOCS using the low-rate nonuniform sampling protocol from CS and illustrate the performance of this framework using simulated data.
Quantum coherence and quantum correlations lie in the center of quantum information science, since they both are considered as fundamental reasons for significant features of quantum mechanics different from classical mechanics. We present a group of complementary relations for quantum coherence and quantum correlations; specifically, we focus on thermal discord and conditional information in scenarios of multiple measurements. We show that the summation of quantum coherence quantified in different bases has a lower bound, resulting from entropic uncertainty relations with multiple measurements. Similar results are also obtained for thermal discord and for post-measurement conditional information with multiple measurements in a multipartite system. These results indicate the general applications of the uncertainty principle to various concepts of quantum information.
We prove lower bounds for energy in the Gaussian core model, in which point particles interact via a Gaussian potential. Under the potential function $t \mapsto e^{-\alpha t^2}$ with $0 < \alpha < 4\pi/e$, we show that no point configuration in $\mathbf{R}^n$ of density $\rho$ can have energy less than $(\rho+o(1))(\pi/\alpha)^{n/2}$ as $n \to \infty$ with $\alpha$ and $\rho$ fixed. This lower bound asymptotically matches the upper bound of $\rho (\pi/\alpha)^{n/2}$ obtained as the expectation in the Siegel mean value theorem, and it is attained by random lattices. The proof is based on the linear programming bound, and it uses an interpolation construction analogous to those used for the Beurling-Selberg extremal problem in analytic number theory. In the other direction, we prove that the upper bound of $\rho (\pi/\alpha)^{n/2}$ is no longer asymptotically sharp when $\alpha > \pi e$. As a consequence of our results, we obtain bounds in $\mathbf{R}^n$ for the minimal energy under inverse power laws $t \mapsto 1/t^{n+s}$ with $s>0$, and these bounds are sharp to within a constant factor as $n \to \infty$ with $s$ fixed.
In this note, recent results of studies of semileptonic B meson decays from \babar are discussed and preliminary results given. In particular, a recent measurement of $\mathcal{B}(B \to D^{(*)}\tau \nu)$ and the ratio $\mathcal{B}(B \to D^{(*)}\tau \nu)/\mathcal{B}(B \to D^{(*)}\ell \nu)$ is presented. For the $D^*$ mode, a branching fraction of $1.79\pm0.13\stat\pm0.17\syst$ is found, with a ratio of $0.325\pm0.023\stat\pm0.027\syst$. For the $D$ mode, the results are $1.04\pm0.12\stat\pm0.14\syst$ and $0.456\pm0.053\stat\pm0.056\syst$, respectively. In addition, a study of $B_s$ production and semileptonic decays using data collected in a center-of-mass energy region above the \Y4S resonance is discussed. The semileptonic branching fraction $\mathcal{B}(B_s \to \ell \nu X)$ is measured to be $9.9{}^{+2.6}_{-2.1}\stat{}^{+1.3}_{-2.0}\syst$.
This paper studies the coordinated beamforming (CoBF) design in the multiple-input single-output interference channel, assuming only channel distribution information given a priori at the transmitters. The CoBF design is formulated as an optimization problem that maximizes a predefined system utility, e.g., the weighted sum rate or the weighted max-min-fairness (MMF) rate, subject to constraints on the individual probability of rate outage and power budget. While the problem is non-convex and appears difficult to handle due to the intricate outage probability constraints, so far it is still unknown if this outage constrained problem is computationally tractable. To answer this, we conduct computational complexity analysis of the outage constrained CoBF problem. Specifically, we show that the outage constrained CoBF problem with the weighted sum rate utility is intrinsically difficult, i.e., NP-hard. Moreover, the outage constrained CoBF problem with the weighted MMF rate utility is also NP-hard except the case when all the transmitters are equipped with single antenna. The presented analysis results confirm that efficient approximation methods are indispensable to the outage constrained CoBF problem.
The impact of Bi implantation on the conductivity and the thermopower of GeTe, Ge-Sb-Te, and Ga- La-S films is investigated. The enhanced conductivity appears to be notably sensitive to a dose of an implant. Incorporation of Bi in amorphous chalcogenide films at doses up to 1x1015 cm-2 is seen not to change the majority carrier type and activation energy for the conduction process. Higher implantation doses may reverse the majority carrier type in the studied films. Electron conductivity was observed in GeTe films implanted with Bi at a dose of 2x1016 cm-2. These studies indicate that native coordination defects present in amorphous chalcogenide semiconductors can be deactivated by means of ion implantation. A substantial density of implantation-induced traps in the studied films and their interfaces with silicon is inferred from analysis of the space-charge limited current and capacitance-voltage characteristics taken on Au/amorphous chalcogenide/Si structures.
This paper is concerned with parabolic gradient systems of the form \[ u_t=-\nabla V (u) + \mathcal{D} u_{xx}\,, \] where the spatial domain is the whole real line, the state variable $u$ is multidimensional, $\mathcal{D}$ denotes a fixed diffusion matrix, and the potential $V$ is coercive at infinity. Bistable solutions, that is solutions close at both ends of space to stable homogeneous equilibria, are considered. For a solution of this kind, it is proved that, if the equilibria approached at both ends belong to the same level set of the potential and if an appropriate (localized in space) energy remains bounded from below as time increases, then the solution approaches, as time goes to infinity, a pattern of profiles of stationary solutions homoclinic or heteroclinic to stable homogeneous equilibria, going slowly away from one another. This result provides a step towards a complete description of the global behaviour of all bistable solutions that is pursued in a companion paper. Some consequences are derived, and applications to some examples are given.
We study interacting components and their compatibility with respect to synchronous and asynchronous composition. The behavior of components is formalized by I/O-transition systems. Synchronous composition is based on simultaneous execution of shared output and input actions of two components while asynchronous composition uses unbounded FIFO-buffers for message transfer. In both contexts we study compatibility notions based on the idea that any output issued by one component should be accepted as an input by the other. We distinguish between strong and weak versions of compatibility, the latter allowing the execution of internal actions before a message is accepted. We consider open systems and study conditions under which (strong/weak) synchronous compatibility is sufficient and necessary to get (strong/weak) asynchronous compatibility. We show that these conditions characterize half-duplex systems. Then we focus on the verification of weak asynchronous compatibility for possibly non half-duplex systems and provide a decidable criterion that ensures weak asynchronous compatibility. We investigate conditions under which this criterion is complete, i.e. if it is not satisfied then the asynchronous system is not weakly asynchronously compatible. Finally, we discuss deadlock-freeness and investigate relationships between deadlock-freeness in the synchronous and in the asynchronous case.
Multiple binomial sums form a large class of multi-indexed sequences, closed under partial summation, which contains most of the sequences obtained by multiple summation of products of binomial coefficients and also all the sequences with algebraic generating function. We study the representation of the generating functions of binomial sums by integrals of rational functions. The outcome is twofold. Firstly, we show that a univariate sequence is a multiple binomial sum if and only if its generating function is the diagonal of a rational function. Secondly, we propose algorithms that decide the equality of multiple binomial sums and that compute recurrence relations for them. In conjunction with geometric simplifications of the integral representations, this approach behaves well in practice. The process avoids the computation of certificates and the problem of the appearance of spurious singularities that afflicts discrete creative telescoping, both in theory and in practice.
Blair Maynard, a divorced journalist in New York City, decides to write a story about the unexplained disappearance of yachts and other small boats in the Caribbean, hoping to debunk theories about the Bermuda Triangle. He has weekend custody of his preteen son Justin, and decides to mix a vacation with work, taking his son along. They fly from Miami to the Turks and Caicos island chain but, while on fishing trip, are captured by a band of pirates. The pirates have, amazingly, remained undetected since the establishment of their pirate enclave by Jean-David Nau, the notorious buccaneer L'Olonnais, in 1671 (in reality, however, L'Olonnais is known to have died four years earlier). The pirates have a constitution of sorts, called the Covenant, and have a cruel but workable society. They raise any children they capture to ensure the survival of the colony, but kill anyone over the age of thirteen. In short order, Justin is virtually brainwashed and groomed to lead the pirate band, much to Maynard's horror. Maynard tries repeatedly to escape, and finally attracts the attention of the passing United States Coast Guard cutter New Hope. The pirates attack and capture it, but Maynard is able to use a machine gun aboard to kill most of the pirates and to win Justin's and his own freedom.
Lyman Ward narrates a century after the fact. Lyman interprets the story at times and leaves gaps that he points out at other times. Some of the disappointments of his life, including his divorce, color his interpretation of his grandparents' story. Toward the end of the novel, he gives up on his original ambition of writing a complete biography of his grandmother. Stegner's use of Mary Hallock Foote's historical letters gives the novel's locations—Leadville, New Almaden, Idaho, and Mexico—an authentic feel; the letters also add vividness to the Wards' struggles with the environment, shady businessmen, and politicians. Lyman's position in the contemporary culture of the late sixties provides another historical dimension to the story. Foils for this plot line include Lyman's adult son, a Berkeley-trained sociologist who sees little value in history, and a neighbor's daughter who helps transcribe Lyman's tape-recorded notes while she is home on summer break from UC Berkeley, where she has been active in the "hippie" counterculture movement.
When Mr. Dashwood dies, his estate, Norland Park, passes directly to his only son John, the child of his first wife. His second wife, Mrs. Dashwood, and their daughters, Elinor, Marianne and Margaret, are left only a small income. On his deathbed, Mr. Dashwood extracts a promise from his son, that he will take care of his half-sisters; however, John's selfish and greedy wife, Fanny, soon persuades him to renege. John and Fanny immediately take up their place as the new owners of Norland, while the Dashwood women are reduced to the position of unwelcome guests. Mrs. Dashwood begins looking for somewhere else to live. In the meantime, Fanny's brother, Edward Ferrars, a pleasant, unassuming, intelligent but reserved young man, visits Norland and soon forms an attachment with Elinor. Fanny disapproves the match and offends Mrs. Dashwood with the implication that Elinor is motivated by money rather than love. Mrs. Dashwood indignantly speeds her search for a new home. Mrs. Dashwood moves her family to Barton Cottage in Devonshire, near the home of her cousin, Sir John Middleton. Their new home lacks many of the conveniences that they have been used to, however they are warmly received by Sir John, and welcomed into the local society, meeting his wife, Lady Middleton, his mother-in-law, Mrs. Jennings and his friend, the grave, quiet and gentlemanly Colonel Brandon. It soon becomes apparent that Colonel Brandon is attracted to Marianne, and Mrs. Jennings teases them about it. Marianne is not pleased as she considers
The narrative follows the course of a man's life from his schoolboy days to his adulthood. The son of a north German merchant and an Italian artist, Tonio inherited qualities from both sides of his family. As a child, he experiences conflicting feelings for the bourgeois people around him. He feels both superior to them in his insights and envious of their innocent vitality. This conflict continues into Tonio's adulthood, when he becomes a famous writer living in southern Germany. "To be an artist," he comes to believe, "one has to die to everyday life." These issues are only partially resolved when Tonio travels north to visit his hometown. While there, Tonio is mistaken for an escaped criminal, thereby reinforcing his inner suspicion that the artist must be an outsider relative to "respectable" society. As Erich Heller &ndash;who knew Thomas Mann personally&ndash; observed, Tonio Kröger’s theme is that of the "artist as an exile from reality" (with Goethe’s Torquato Tasso (1790) and Grillparzer’s Sappho (1818) for company). Yet it was also Erich Heller who, earlier, in his own youth, had diagnosed the main theme of Tonio Kröger to be the infatuation and entanglements of a passionate heart, destined to give shape to, intellectualize, its feelings in artistic terms.
Section 1-21 year old Lord Tyrone Sully inherits his parent's wealth when his father dies in a bull-related accident, and his mother, wishing to join him, suicides. Deppressed, he decides to leave with Oscar to buy a horse in Black Chest. Everything starts to go wrong when his uninvited cousin, Silke turns up and Oscar invites her to join them. On the long road to the horse auction, Oscar and Silke fall for each other, to Tyrone's annoyance. He says nothing and helps both of them for the sake of his friend. He meets Lord Silverdale, a hated childhood friend who he recovers to be a cheat. Oscar's stable boy, Grundy buys him a horse and they travel back to Tyrone's house, Wylde Hide. On the way back, he finds Silverdale waiting for him in a bar. Silverdale shoots Tyrone below the heart. Oscar, with quick thinking, draws out his gun and shoots Silverdale straight in the heart. Silverdale dies, while Tyrone lives, fighting for his life. He eventually heals and returns home. Section 2-Oscar is married to Silke, with whom Tyrone eventually becomes friends. Tyrone had taken all the blame for shooting Lord Silverdale, and now not welcome anymore. Holly, a servant girl goes looking for work, and Tyrone recruits her. Silke, who is sick of England, decides to run away back to Paris to her original home, leaving Oscar with her baby, Ashley. Meanwhile, Tyrone falls in love with Holly. Oscar and his sister Celia decide that Holly
The novel's narrative is divided into three distinct strands. One is centred on Urania Cabral, a fictional Dominican character; another deals with the conspirators involved in Trujillo's assassination; and the third focuses on Trujillo himself. The novel alternates between these storylines, and also jumps back and forth from 1961 to 1996, with frequent flashbacks to periods earlier in Trujillo's regime. The Feast of the Goat begins with the return of Urania to her hometown of Santo Domingo, a city which had been renamed Ciudad Trujillo during Trujillo's time in power. This storyline is largely introspective and deals with Urania's memories and her inner turmoil over the events preceding her departure from the Dominican Republic thirty-five years earlier. Urania escaped the crumbling Trujillo regime in 1961 by claiming she planned to study under the tutelage of nuns in Michigan. In the following decades, she becomes a prominent and successful New York lawyer. She finally returns to the Dominican Republic in 1996, on a whim, and finds herself compelled to confront her father and elements of her past she has long ignored. As Urania speaks to her ailing father, Agustin Cabral, she recalls more and more of the anger and disgust that led to her thirty-five years of silence. Urania retells her father's descent into political disgrace, and the betrayal that forms the crux of both Urania's storyline and that of Trujillo himself. The second and third storylines are set in 1961, in the weeks prior to and following Trujillo's assassination on
The novel is narrated by a 13 year old girl, Salamanca Tree Hiddle (Sal). Sal's mother, Sugar, has recently left Sal and her father for reasons that are initially unclear. Sal, an only child, has had a very close relationship with her mother and is devastated by her departure. After Sal's father realizes that Sugar will never return, he and Sal move from their beloved farm in Bybanks, Kentucky to Euclid, Ohio, where a woman with whom he has recently become involved, Mrs.Magaret Cadaver, helps him find a job. Sal's beloved Gram and Gramps take her on a cross-country car trip to Lewiston, Idaho to reach her mother in time for her birthday; Sal hopes to bring Sugar home with her. On the trip, Sal entertains her grandparents by telling them about a friend in Euclid, Phoebe Winterbottom, whose mother, after many manifestations of discontent with her life, has also left her family. Intertwined with Sal's narrative is the story of her growing friendship with several classmates and her tentative romance with one of these classmates, Ben Finney. Over the course of the book, as Sal and her grandparents travel west, and Sal continues telling Phoebe's story, parallels and differences between Sal's and Phoebe's lives become clear. Sal's grandmother dies of a stroke just after she has achieved one of her lifelong wishes, seeing Old Faithful in Yellowstone, and right before they are due to arrive in Lewiston. Sal's grandfather, who has previously taught Sal how to drive, encourages Sal
Victor Frank, and his wife Marsha, are unable to have a second child due to Marsha's infertility. They turn to surrogacy as an alternate method of conception. Victor, an obstetrician-gynaecologist and owner of the biochemical company Chimera Inc., injects the egg implanted in his wife with an agent called Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) into chromosome six, which causes the baby to grow more neurons than usual, as a result making them super intelligent. Their son, VJ, is born a genius. He is able to talk in six months and read in thirteen. Several years later, VJ's brother, David, and nanny, Janice, both die of an unexplainable rare form of liver cancer. At about three, VJ experiences a drop in intelligence, leading Victor to think his experiment is a failure. VJ lives a secluded life from that point, leading his psychiatrist mother to worry, to the annoyance of Victor who believes VJ is fine. When VJ turns eleven, a disastrous chain of events begins. Victor had injected two other eggs with NGF, which were given to two families who work at Chimera through the fertility clinic there. They both inexplicably die at age three because of brain edema. Victor later finds out they had been given the antibiotic Cephaloclor, which causes the nerve cell growth process to begin again. This causes their brains to grow too large for their skulls, killing them. Their parents, however, were told their children had deadly allergies to this antibiotic. Victor launches an investigation into the
During a thunderstorm, Tintin and Captain Haddock shelter in Marlinspike Hall. During the storm, several items of glass and china within the house break for no apparent reason. An insurance agent, Jolyon Wagg barges into the hall seeking shelter. He claims that all the windows of his car have somehow blown to bits. More mysterious incidents of glass breaking occur. After the storm, gunshots are heard outside. Professor Calculus returns from his laboratory with bullet holes in his hat. Investigating outside, Tintin discovers a wounded man in the grounds. He disappears before he can be questioned. The next day a preoccupied Calculus leaves to attend a conference on nuclear physics in Geneva, Switzerland. With him gone the glass breaking stops, leading Tintin to suspect Calculus may have been responsible for it. He and the Captain investigate inside his laboratory, finding a strange device and boxes of broken glass. Suddenly they are surprised by a man in trenchcoat and mask, who escapes after punching the Captain and Snowy. He drops a key and a packet of cigarettes with the name of the Hotel Cornavin (where Calculus is staying in Geneva) scrawled onto it. Believing that Calculus is in danger, Tintin and Haddock decide to follow him to Switzerland. In Geneva, Tintin and Haddock miss Calculus at his hotel by seconds, delayed by two men dressed in the same trenchcoats as the man in the lab. They track Calculus to Nyon, at the home of Professor Topolino, an expert in ultrasonics. On
A group of scientific researchers, isolated in Antarctica by the nearly-ended winter, discover an alien spaceship buried in the ice, where it crashed twenty million years before. They try to thaw the inside of the spacecraft with a thermite charge, but end up accidentally destroying it when the ship's magnesium hull is ignited by the charge. However, they do recover the alien pilot from the ancient ice, which the researchers believe was searching for heat when it was frozen. Thawing revives the alien, a being which can assume the shape, memories, and personality of any living thing it devours, while maintaining its original body mass for further reproduction. Unknown to them, the alien immediately kills and then imitates the crew's physicist, a man named Connant; with some 90 pounds of its matter left over it tries to become a sled dog. The crew discovers the dog-Thing and kills it in the process of transformation. Pathologist Blair, who had lobbied for thawing the Thing, goes insane with paranoia and guilt, vowing to kill everyone at the base in order to save mankind; he is isolated within a locked cabin at their outpost. Connant is also isolated as a precaution and a "rule-of-four" is initiated in which all personnel must remain under the close scrutiny of three others. The crew realizes they must isolate themselves and therefore disable their airplanes and vehicles, while pretending things are normal over their radio transmissions to prevent any rescue attempt from civilization. The researchers try to
The story follows the journey of a tribe called the Munrungs, across a world known as the Carpet. Its resemblance to carpets does not end there; instead of trees, the landscape is a forest of hairs, and is littered with large grains of dust and vegetation. The sky is only referred to as above and below the surface is underlay, riddled with caves, and ultimately the Floor. The Munrungs cross the carpet to find a new home after their village is destroyed by the powerful and mysterious natural force Fray. The origins of Fray are never explained in the book, but it is described in a way to suggest sweeping or vacuuming (some reviewers have suggested it represents human footfalls), and is referred to as sweeping on the back cover of the current UK edition. The tribe is led by Glurk, who is advised by Pismire, a philosopher and the tribal Shaman. Glurk's younger brother Snibril, however, is the book's protagonist, and is described by Pismire as having the kind of enquiring mind which is "dangerous". Snibril also has the unique ability to detect Fray a few minutes before it strikes - this ability manifests itself as an extremely painful migraine. The only source of metal on the carpet is mined from a dropped penny; wood is taken from discarded matchsticks, while the clairvoyant Wights obtain varnish by scraping it from a chair leg (the chair leg is known to the Carpet People as "Achairleg"). The story ends following an
The year is 1934. According to legend, the Polynesian island of Salutua disappeared after a fire god rose up from the volcano and drove away the natives. However, the eccentric Professor Sternberg believes that he’s located the legendary island, after tending to a man found floating in the Pacific Ocean with giant animal bites on his body. An American millionaire, film producer Marshal Grover, funds an expedition to Salutua based on Sternberg’s findings, apparently intending to use the island as a backdrop for a realistic monster movie. The expedition’s ship, the Constitution, passes through what appears to be a freak atmospheric distortion which shrouds Salutua from the outside world, but is disabled by an underwater explosion as it enters the lagoon. The crew successfully beach the ship, and as they begin to conduct repairs, Grover’s team sets off to explore the jungle. The flora and fauna on the island prove to be impossibly gigantic, but Grover’s spoiled second wife, former starlet Nancy Norton, is terrified by the unnatural growth, and when she’s attacked by a giant snake she flatly refuses to film anything on the island. Grover, however, refuses to take her away just yet. He has another reason for coming to Salutua -- a motive connected to his beloved daughter Amelia, who lost an arm in the car crash which killed Grover’s first wife. In present-day London, the Doctor and Liz are working on the TARDIS console when Sergeant Mike Yates arrives in the laboratowy with a package from
ACT I, SCENE 1 Sidney Bruhl, an accomplished writer, has had a series of box office flops and is having trouble writing the next play. When he reads a play by Clifford Anderson, a younger writer, he decides to steal the script and kill him. SCENE 2 Clifford stops by Sidney's office to learn what he thinks of his play. While asking Clifford questions that allude to murder, Sidney kills him as Sidney's wife Myra looks on in horror. Sidney wraps Clifford's body in a rug and discusses how he plans to take credit for Clifford's play. SCENE 3 As Sidney returns from disposing of Clifford's body, psychic Helga ten Dorp visits to tell Sidney and Myra that she is receiving bad vibes from the house. Helga wanders around the house revealing only trivial insights. When she leaves, Sidney is elated that Helga has not discovered the murder. As he goes to turn off the lights, Clifford, covered in mud, snatches him from behind, attack Sidney as Helga had predicted he would. Myra, shocked by the evening's events, collapses, apparently the victim of a heart attack. Clifford confirms Myra's death and exclaims to Sidney that their plan has been successful. Clifford's murder had been staged to shock and kill Myra. ACT II, SCENE 1 Two weeks have elapsed. Clifford is working on his manuscript. Sidney continues to suffer from writer's block. Porter Milgrim, Sidney's attorney, tells Sidney he has seen Clifford locking his manuscript away and tells Sidney not to
The book features nanotechnology, which Richard Feynman had discussed in his 1959 speech There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom. Drexler imagines a world where the entire Library of Congress can fit on a chip the size of a sugar cube and where universal assemblers, tiny machines that can build objects atom by atom, will be used for everything from medicinal robots that help clear capillaries to environmental scrubbers that clear pollutants from the air. In the book, Drexler first proposes the gray goo scenario—his prediction of what might happen if molecular nanotechnology were used to build uncontrollable self-replicating machines. Topics also include hypertext as developed by Project Xanadu and life extension. Drexler takes a Malthusian view of exponential growth within limits to growth. He also promotes space advocacy arguing that, because the universe is essentially infinite, life can escape the limits to growth defined by Earth. Drexler supports a form of the Fermi paradox, arguing that as there is no evidence of alien civilizations, "Thus for now, and perhaps forever, we can make plans for our future without concern for limits imposed by other civilizations."
The foreword is by fictional author Sieur Louis de Conte, writing from Domrémy, France to his great-great-grand nephews and nieces, in the year 1492. He relates his relationship to Joan as first a childhood friend, and later her page and secretary. He reminisces, “I was with her from the beginning until the end.” Book One begins with the birth of de Conte on January 6th, 1410, in Neufchâteau, France. He relates his early childhood as plagued with misery brought on by the English forces. For over seventy-five years, he states, France has felt the oppressive force of the English and Burgundian armies. With each battle lost, the despair of the French people grows. In 1415, following the death of his family by a Burgundian raiding party, de Conte is sent to Domrémy to live with the parish priest. Here he meets young Joan d’Arc, who lives a relatively quiet life in the small country village. Yet even in her early years, de Conte describes multiple incidents where Joan is shown to be the wisest and bravest child in Domrémy. For example, she defends the children’s friends (the fairies) against unfair banishment, convinces the townspeople to provide food and shelter for a wandering soldier, and peaceably stops a madman who threatens the village. In Chapter VI, the novel relates that, at fourteen years of age, Joan’s manner undergoes a change. Instead of being “the most light-hearted creature and the merriest in the village” de Conte says that “she had been mainly
Tikkirey "Tiki" Frost lives on the planet Quarry, poorly adapted for human life and stricken with poverty. Due to the planet's high radioactivity, the inhabitants of Quarry are forced to live in a protective dome and pay for food and air, or "social support". Unemployment is a major problem on Quarry. In fact, one's ability to obtain a job depends on the quality of his or her neuroshunt implant, allowing direct mind-to-machine connection. Tikkirey's parents' neuroshunts have become obsolete and they have no money for an upgrade. His father has been unemployed for years, and his mother makes a pittance. Incapable of paying for their social support, Tikkirey's parents are forced to invoke their "constitutional right to commit suicide." For that, Tikkirey's social support is extended by 7 years, during which he can get education and find a job, as his neuroshunt is above the local standard. If his parents forgo their "constitutional right", the entire family will be evicted from the Dome. The life expectancy outside the Dome is 1-2 years. After losing his parents, Tikkirey decides to leave Quarry by any means necessary. As such, he signs up on an interstellar ore transport as a "calculation module" — a wetware computer used for complex calculations at faster-than-light speeds, as normal computers fail to work. A calculation module remains in hibernation, most of the time, while a stream of data is shunted through his brain. While this is a highly paid position, continuous misuse of the brain atrophies the
Legacy is the immediate sequel to Beguilement in the Sharing Knife series. It follows the pairing of farmer Fawn and lakewalker maverick Dag, after their marriage at Fawn's home in the previous volume. Where they, unencumbered by minor opposition, were married in accord with the customs of both groups. They travel to Dag's clan's home camp at Hickory Lake, where they find the expected prejudices against miscegenation between Farmers and Lakewalkers. Dag is called on to lead a group of Lakewalker patrollers against an advanced malice. Dag decides that confronting the malice is more important than trying to free several Lakewalkers who have been entranced in the mud-man-making process by which the malice produces its slaves. After Dag's group has killed the malice, Dag, himself, also becomes entranced. Fawn carries her heroine role through by thinking out a way to revive him, and the rest of the Lakewalkers. Neither achievement carries enough weight with Dag's brother and mother to make them relent in their efforts to break this pairing. These two carry the role of villains, but they are drawn so that the reasons for their awkward quirks are clear. Although their marriage, and Fawn's potential value to the camp are accepted by some of the Lakewalkers, The Dag-and-Fawn combination raises enough awkward precedents that they are about to be voted into exile when Dag subverts the process, stating that he intends to leave his home community in any case. Dag and Fawn then take as many portable assets as
Ulf is a young werewolf who lives at Farraway Hall, where he and hundreds of other endangered beasts are protected by the RSPCB (The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Beasts). When Professor Farraway, the founder of the RSPCB, died, he left his fortune and estate to the society. His son, Baron Marackai, believed he deserved the contents of his father's will and he's made it his life's ambition to take revenge on the RSPCB. A man named Inspector Black shows up at Farraway hall claiming to be investigating the murder of a baby dragon. He believes that the culprit shot the baby dragon in order to lure the mother dragon into a trap. The killer was planning to erect a Ring of Horrors where two endangered beasts battled to the death before a crowd of spectators. But Ulf sees through Inspector Black's facade. Ulf believes he has too much information about the dragon killer's intentions to for an innocent investigator. Inspector Black has his hand in these dirty dealings, and it's up to Ulf to prove it.
A man, later known to be Donald Phillipson, goes for an interview in Oxford to be headmaster of a school, later known to be the Roger Bacon Comprehensive School in Oxford. At the bus stop a girl gets into conversation with him and later seduces him. She turns out to be a girl from the school, Valerie Taylor, and a year later she goes missing. Two years after that Inspector Morse picks up the case following a road accident in which Chief Inspector Ainley was killed. A mysterious letter arrives apparently from Valerie, but Morse is convinced Valerie must be dead and tries to find out what happened on the day she disappeared. She went home from school for lunch and was last seen by a lollipop man carrying a bag. Morse discovers she was pregnant and suspects she had been sent off for an abortion. The plot thickens when Reginald Baines, another teacher at the school, is found murdered at his house near Oxford Station. Three suspicious characters had been near his house—Mrs Phillipson, Valerie Taylor’s mum, seen wearing her distinctive cherry coloured coat, and David Acum, a French teacher who had taught Valerie’s last lesson. Morse also suspects Acum’s wife, but rejects this when he discovers she is living in North Wales and does not drive.
Granite is born on a snowy April day in Alaska. For the first weeks of his life, he lives in the kennels, playing with his siblings Digger, Cricket, and Nugget. Even though their mother Seppala gets sick, life is good there. His owners, Tim and Kate, take good care of him. Granite differs from the other pups. He is not eager to train to be a sled dog. One day, when the pups are ten-weeks-old, a man shows up to buy Granite and his sister Cricket. Even though Cricket is bought and does not mind going to a new home, Granite does not want to leave his mother and runs away from where he grew up. He runs away into the Alaskan wilderness. After days wandering alone, hungry and injured, the Siberian husky puppy meets a wolf pack, led by a black wolf named Ebony and his mate, Snowdrift the white wolf, whose pups were kidnapped weeks before. She takes Granite in. Snowdrift raises the dog as a foster son and teaches him to hunt mice. That seems to help her get over some pain in losing her pups. It is mentioned that her pups were stolen by humans who wanted to breed young wolves to huskies, for wolfdogs are worth a lot of money. Even though he protects Granite, Ebony does not like him, and neither do Strider (Ebony's brother, Granite's chief tormentor), Roamer (Ebony and Snowdrift's two-year-old son), and Breeze (a female wolf who came to them from
At the start of the book, Seeker is hunting down the last two savanters. He chases them through a mountain, through a mysterious valley and through the Glimmen. He finds Echo Kittle, who helps track them to a place called the Haven (which is an expensive refuge for fleeing people). He fights briefly with one of the savanters, who he does not manage to kill, instead becoming possessed by her. The other savanter flees, and manages to escape on a boat to other lands. Meanwhile, the Wildman is head of the spiker army which formed at the end of Jango; Morning Star is there too. There is restlesness in the Spiker camp, and the Wildman is forced to kill Snakey, his childhood friend, in a leadership battle. Morning Star, sickened by the events, leaves and returns to her home village. When she arrives there, she finds it mysteriously empty. Soon she finds where everyone has gone; a huge assembly of people who call themselves 'the Joyous'. The leader of the Joyous is a young man called the Joy Boy. He claims to be leading people to the 'Great Embrace', which is when all his followers will become God. Morning Star is suspicious of the Joy Boy, especially because he has no aura, but he infects her with joy, and she complies to find Seeker for him, under the premise that the Noble Warriors need joy more than anyone else. Soon after Morning Star leaves, the Wildman and the Spiker army
Horace Cross is a gay black teenager from Tims Creek, North Carolina. He is fascinated with science and comic books, and his family is convinced that he is going to make them proud. Horace grows up in a fundamentalist Baptist church family which condemns homosexuality, forcing Horace to stay in the closet for sometime, and constantly wrestle with his self identity. The story starts with an internal dialogue about Horace's desire and quest to turn himself into a bird. When his ritual for this transformation fails, he is apparently possessed by a demon. Armed with his grandfather's gun and mostly naked, he wanders around his hometown, experiencing flashbacks and revelations which tell the story of his life, his struggles with homosexuality, and the failures of his closest friends and family to save him from his fate. Mixed into the telling of Horace's journey is "present" and past events explaining more about how Horace's elder cousin, Jimmy Greene, becomes a minister and the principal of the local high school. Jimmy can't give any real advice of his own, and has to turn to the Bible when confronted with a problem (he references the Old Testament when Horace comes out to him and, in fact, advises Horace to, paradoxically, "Search your heart. Take it to the Lord. But don't dwell on it too much. You'll be fine. Believe me."). In the present to the story thread of this book, Jimmy drives his great-aunt Ruth and his uncle Ezekiel to see one of
Karz is a military leader who has never known defeat. The huge Mongol is now assembling and training a large and well-equipped army of mercenaries in a hidden valley in the Hindu Kush Mountains bordering on Afghanistan. His objective: The invasion and occupation of oil-rich Kuwait. Karz does have one problem though; he lacks a couple of top lieutenants to command two sections of his growing army. His choice falls on Modesty Blaise and Willie Garvin, even though he knows they are not for hire. Meanwhile, Sir Gerald Tarrant, who runs a secret service organization under the British government, has noticed that many mercenaries are being recruited by some unknown employer and disappearing. This worries Sir Gerald, and he asks Modesty and Willie to investigate. So while Modesty and Willie are looking for Karz (without knowing who they're looking for), Karz has Lucille (a child dear to Modesty and Willie) kidnapped, and commands Modesty and Willie to report for duty. There is no possible way that Modesty and Willie can both save Lucille and sabotage the invasion of Kuwait. Modesty plays a long shot and is forced to fight the fearsome Twins, two men joined at the shoulders, a four-legged four-armed fighting animal impossible to defeat. And even if she survives that fight, how will Modesty escape from the isolated valley so far from civilization?
The Black Company is ordered to march thousands of miles across the Lady's vast empire to the Barrowland. A small detachment, including the Company's doctor and historian, Croaker, is flown to Juniper, a run-down port outside the empire, at the request of the local prince, to investigate its magical connection to the Barrowland. By coincidence, Raven, a deserter from the Company, and his ward Darling are living at Marron Shed's dilapidated hotel in Juniper. Raven has been accumulating money any way he can, including selling dead (and almost dead) bodies to the non-human residents of a mysterious black castle that is steadily growing, fueling the unease of the city's residents. Shed also desperately needs money, to pay his loanshark Krage. Raven does him a favor by letting him participate in his body-selling venture. When Raven and Shed find out that Shed's acquaintance, Asa, has been robbing the dead in the underground Catacombs, they follow suit. A minor incident escalates into a life-and-death struggle between Krage and Raven, which the former loses; Krage and many of his henchmen are sold for a hefty sum to the castle. Two of the Lady's most powerful wizards, Whisper and Feather, arrive in Juniper to investigate the castle and determine that it is an attempt by the Dominator to escape. Ironically, Raven, while trying to protect Darling, had been unwittingly aiding her worst enemy. If the castle gets sufficient bodies to grow large enough, the Dominator will be freed. Once he learns of Raven's presence,
New York City, summer 1944. Although she runs a successful private psychiatric clinic on New York's Park Avenue, Dr. Charlotte Manning &mdash; young, beautiful, blonde, and well-to-do &mdash; cannot get enough. In order to increase her profit, she gets involved with a group of criminals &mdash; a "syndicate" &mdash; specialising in both prostitution and drug-trafficking. The brains of the "outfit" is Hal Kines, who has had plastic surgery so that he looks much younger than he really is, this being how he gets hold of the young women whom he then turns into prostitutes. Manning herself has a rich and "ritzy" clientele &mdash; people who would not want their addiction to become public knowledge. But instead of weaning them off drugs in her private and exclusive clinic, Manning makes them even more dependent on both the drug &mdash; heroin in most cases &mdash; and on herself by procuring the stuff herself. On the surface, Charlotte Manning keeps up appearances and leads a respectable life as a renowned psychiatrist. When Jack Williams, a former New York cop who has lost an arm in World War II saving his friend Mike Hammer's life, falls in love with Myrna Devlin, a young heroin addict whom he stops from jumping off a bridge to commit suicide, he asks Manning to admit her to her clinic for psychotherapy. After Myrna has become clean, she and Williams become engaged, and the couple keep up a casual friendship with Charlotte Manning. This is how Williams's growing suspicions
Lewis has been both criticized and congratulated for his unorthodox writing style in Babbitt. As one reviewer puts it: “There is no plot whatever… Babbitt simply grows two years older as the tale unfolds.” Lewis presents a chronological series of scenes in the life of his title character. After introducing George F. Babbitt as a middle-aged man, "nimble in the calling of selling houses for more than people could afford to pay," Lewis presents a meticulously detailed description of Babbitt's morning routine. Each item Babbitt encounters is explained, from the high-tech alarm clock, which Babbitt sees as a marker of social status, to the rough camp blanket, a symbol of the freedom and heroism of the West. As he dresses for the day, Babbitt contemplates each article of his "Solid Citizen" uniform, most important being his Booster's club button, which he wears with pride. The first seven chapters follow Babbitt's life over the course of a single day. Over breakfast Babbitt dotes on his ten-year-old daughter Tinka, tries to dissuade his twenty-two-year-old daughter Verona from her new found socialist leanings, and encourages his seventeen-year-old son Ted to try harder in school. At the office he dictates letters and discusses real estate advertising with his employees. Babbitt is professionally successful as a realtor. Much of his energy in early chapters is spent on climbing the social ladder through booster functions, real estate sales, and making good with various dignitaries. According to Babbitt, any “decent” man in Zenith belonged to at least
Mrs. Bentley, a Protestant minister’s wife, writes journal (or diary) entries on a regular basis; the time span is just over a year. The couple has just moved to yet another small town, "Horizon." Mrs. Bentley, whose first name we never learn, despairs of Philip (her husband), who is becoming ever more remote. As she records her feelings, it is clear she, as she suspects of her husband, has nothing but contempt for her husband's flock. Mrs. Bentley sees herself and Philip as frustrated artists; she has a passion for music and, in her youth, entertained dreams of success as a pianist, and he spends much of his time sketching and painting. Her journal tells mostly of her efforts to win her husband's affections, yet he appears to withstand her efforts, which are conflicted and subtly evasive. She strikes up a friendship with Paul, a local schoolteacher and philologist, while Philip engages the affections of Judith. They attempt to adopt a Catholic child, Steve, who seems to fulfil Philip's desire for a child that Mrs. Bentley cannot apparently deliver, but this arrangement falls apart. Eventually, putatively under pressure from an increasingly hostile congregation, they prepare to move to a city. However, it is plain that the congregation and town are nothing like as philistine as Mrs. Bentley insists — neighbourhood boys admiringly lurk outside the manse listening to her practise the piano and the audience for her recital in the church hall is vastly appreciative — but Mrs. Bentley is
It continues the journey of Becca and Doug MacKenzie. In this second adventure, Becca and her brother, Doug, have escaped Wenzi Island and Sheng-Fat, but find themselves right back in the action. Their ship is struck by a powerful typhoon and is driven ashore on Sulphur Island. There the two teens, Doug and Becca; their uncle, Captain MacKenzie; his brave crew and the Sujing Quantou warriors find themselves once again facing their nemesis, Julius Pembleton-Crozier, his hired army of Kalaxx warriors, and several other people such as his wife Lucrieta, Alfonso Borelli, a Treasurer of the HGS who has betrayed the HGS and joined Julius Pembleton-Crozier in the resurrected Coterie Of St. Petersburg. Alfonso Borelli also gives Julius the Eastern gyrolabe, which he took from the HGS after he betrayed it. It takes all of their ingenuity, bravery, and wit to figure out his intent and why the islands are so very important to these enemies of the Honourable Guild of Specialists (HGS). The captain's Northern gyrolabe is stolen by the Kalaxx and Becca and Doug discover clues that lead to the finding of the Southern chapter of The 99 Elements and the Southern gyrolabe. Xu and Xi manage to save the southern part of The 99 Elements but the southern gyrolabe is taken by Julius Pembleton-Crozier. Also the Expedient, the captain's ship, is broken beyond repair and has to be scuttled. They also say goodbye to Liberty Da Vine who, failing to regain her plane Lola, is given the
Russia has changed from a Communist to capitalist state, and Ukraine has seceded from the former Soviet Union. When Pavel "Pasha" Ivanov, one of the leading members of Russia's new billionaire class, dies in an apparent suicide, Renko investigates. Pasha fell from the balcony of his penthouse apartment, and all the signs point to his having been alone at the time. The only anomaly is a large mound of table salt in the victim's wardrobe. Despite interference from his own boss as well as from other persons of power, Renko continues his investigation by questioning Pasha's friends and associates. There is apparently some kind of dark secret in Ivanov's past, and Pasha was always very depressed around May Day. Just before he is forcefully removed from the investigation, Arkady returns alone to Pasha's apartment and reconstructs his movements on the night he died. In the drawer of his bureau, Arkady finds a radiation dosimeter wrapped in a blood-stained handkerchief. Turning it on, he finds that the entire apartment is radioactive, the highest levels coming from the mound of salt. Arkady concludes that Ivanov did indeed commit suicide but that it was under a form of duress. A HazMat team re-examines the apartment and Pasha's body and finds that the salt was mixed with a small quantity of cesium chloride, identical in appearance to table salt. It so happens that Cesium-137 is an isotope that is lethally radioactive. After confirming that his apartment was filled with radiation, Ivanov swallowed a quantity
Adeline's family considers her as bad luck and they don't pay attention to her throughout her early childhood. This is the story of her struggle for acceptance and how she overcomes the odds to prove her worth. Born the fifth child to a wealthy Chinese family, Adeline's life begins tragically. Adeline's mother died three days after her birth due to complications bought on by the delivery, and in Chinese culture she is considered as bad luck. This situation is compounded by her father's new marriage to a lady who has little affection for her husband's five children. She displays overt antagonism and distrust towards all of the children, particularly Adeline, while favoring her own younger son and daughter born soon after the marriage. The book outlines Adeline's struggle to find a place where she feels she belongs. Denied love from her parents, she finds some solace in relationships with her grandfather (Ye Ye) and her Aunt Baba, but they are taken from her. Adeline immerses herself in striving for academic achievement in the hope of winning favour, but also for its own rewards as she finds great pleasure in words and scholarly success. Adeline progresses through various situations in life, from boarding school to studies abroad.
For the first time in five hundred years, the master of Porterhouse fails to name his successor on his deathbed before dying. He succumbs to a Porterhouse Blue - a stroke brought about by overindulgence in the college's legendary cuisine. Sir Godber Evans is appointed as his successor. Sir Godber, egged on by his zealous wife, Lady Mary, announces sweeping changes to the centuries of college tradition, much to the concern of Skullion and the Fellows, who plan a counter-attack on the proposed contraceptive machines, women students, and canteen. Meanwhile, the only research graduate student in the college, Lionel Zipser, visits the hard-of-hearing Chaplain and explains his fixation for Mrs Biggs, his middle-aged, large-breasted bedder, through a megaphone, and is therefore overheard by the whole college. Mrs Biggs is not within earshot, but nevertheless senses that something is up from Zipser's awkward behaviour around her every time she comes to clean his room and especially when she teases him sexually, the climax of which is when she asks him to help her take off her bright red PVC raincoat from behind, which prompts him to reach around her and - at least in the TV mini-series - almost touch her large breasts. While Sir Godber congratulates himself on having defeated the traditionalists, investigative journalist Cornelius Carrington is brought in on the pretext of helping both parties, while secretly having his own agenda. Meanwhile, having been advised to pick up a foreign student, so as to avoid his predatory lust for
The Duc de Richleau receives a letter that is a code from his missing friend the young American Rex Van Ryn who, while hunting for treasure lost during the Soviet takeover of Russia, is now in prison somewhere in that vast country. He shares the letter with another young friend, Simon Aron, who agrees to accompany him to search for their friend. They travel to Moscow separately, and reunite one cold winter morning. Aron had met a famous Russian soprano in London and begins an affair with her in Moscow, much to the chagrin of her watcher, a Soviet official. Eventually, she obtains through her watcher the location of Rex, who is in a prison two days to the east of Moscow, in exchange for a guarantee that Simon will leave Moscow within the day. So they book a train for a seven-day transit far to the east, but the morning after they board Simon feigns illness. The Duc, who grew up in Russia and therefore speaks Russian, befriends the porter and the next morning persuades him to allow them to leave the train secretly just before it enters a station in order to save the rapidly ailing Simon's life. They are followed off the train, but they are armed as the Duc smuggled two pistols along with fifty Hoyo de Monterrey cigars into the country through the British embassy. They kill their pursuer and hide him in an old tool shed where they hope he will not be discovered
The plot revolves around fourteen colonists of the world Delmak-O. They are: Betty Jo Berm, a linguist; elderly Bert Kostler, settlement custodian; Maggie Walsh, a theologian; Ignatz Thugg, who oversees thermoplastics; Milton Babble, a physician; Wade Frazer, a psychologist; Tony Dunkelwelt, a geologist; Glen Belsnor, who specialises in telecommunications; Susie Smart, a typist; Roberta Rockingham, a sociologist; Ben Tallchief, a naturalist; Seth and Mary Morley, a marine biologist couple; and Ned Russell, an economist. They inhabit a universe in which the deities of their religion can be contacted through a network of prayer amplifiers and transmitters. Tallchief is transferred to Delmak-O as a direct result of his prayer-petition for a change in his intolerable work situation. Delmak-O is a mysterious and largely unexplored world. It seems to be inhabited by both real and artificial beings and enormous cube-shaped, gelatinous objects ("tenches") that duplicate items presented to them and give out advice, in anagrams reminiscent of the I Ching. In addition, various members of the group report sightings of a large "Building". As various calamities continue to befall each character, part of the group ventures out to find the mysterious structure. Each member of the group perceives the Building's entrance motto, and thus its purpose, differently. One by one, the characters Tallchief, Smart, Berm, Dunkelwelt, Kostler and Walsh either kill themselves or are killed under mysterious circumstances. During a fight between the remaining colonists Seth Morley is shot through the shoulder causing an artery to be severed. While recovering from an
Darian, the black sheep of his village, is blamed for every misdemeanour of the village children. The villagers, who feared the woods they were surrounded by, were afraid his parents' trips into the woods would bring death to them in the form of a monster formed by the Mage Storms. When his parents died and on the verge of being abandoned, Darin is apprenticed to the village hedge wizard - Justyn. However, this makes Darian unhappy and the villages feel he is ungrateful causing them to be hostile. The mage tries his best, though he's not very good with children. Darian just doesn't want to learn to use the magical ability inside him. Then one day the village is unexpectedly attacked by barbarians from the north - the Bear Clan - who take over the village. In the fight Justyn is killed and Darian flees. During his flight Darian is almost caught by two of the barbarians chasing him when he is unexpectedly rescued by a Hawkbrother scout called Snowfire, who has some magic of his own. Snowfire takes Darian back to the temporary camp where they set out to find out what happened, However, Darian is very upset with the realisation that Justyn only ever tried to help him – even when Darian was outrageously rude. Mixed with suppressed feelings for his parents who he believes are not dead and distaste for the villagers, Snowfire, along with the mages Starfall & Nightwind and the gryphon Kel, they gradually help
The narrator (ostensibly Strindberg, although his narrative variably coheres with and diverges from historical truth), spends most of the novel in Paris, isolated from his wife (Frida Uhl), children, and friends. He associates with a circle of Parisian artists and writers (including Paul Gauguin and Edvard Munch), but often fears they are ridiculing and persecuting him. In his isolation, Strindberg successfully attempts alchemical experiments, and has his work published in prominent journals. He fears, however, that his secrets will be stolen, and his persecution mania worsens, believing that his enemies are attacking him with 'infernal machines.' He also dabbles in the occult, at one point casting a black magic spell on his own distanced daughter. Throughout his studies and adventures, Strindberg believes himself guided by mysterious forces (attributing them sometimes to God, Fate, or vaguer origins). When returning to Sweden to see his daughter, Strindberg is introduced to German mythology and the teachings of Swedenborg, which both influence his fatalistic beliefs and delusions. Through this newfound imagery, Strindberg sees his life as a living hell, hence the novel's title.
The story of Earthsearch 2 continues the adventures of the crew of the starship Challenger (Telson, Sharna, Darv and Astra) begun in the previous serial, Earthsearch, which told the story of theirquest for their lost ancestral homeplanet of Earth (which had moved to orbit a new and unknown star when its citizens realised their original sun was going to go nova). At the end of the serial, the four crewmembers had chosen to settle on the sufficiently Earth-like planet Paradise and escape the ruthless, manipulative control of the Challengers megalomaniacal control computers, Angel One and Angel Two. While the Angels departed Paradise orbit to continue the Earthsearch mission (and to achieve their aim of dominating an entire civilisation), the humans began their new life on their new homeworld. Earthsearch 2 begins four years later, when Telson, Sharna, Darv and Astra have settled into their life on Paradise (assisted by two androids, the agricultural machine George and the argumentative general-purpose service unit Tidy). Both couples now have young children - Darv and Astra have the twins Elka and Savin, and Telson and Sharna have their son Bran. Despite the colonists' embrace of Paradise as home, the lifestyle is proving to be difficult and full of hardships. Sharna's loss of what would have been her second child raises questions about the sustainability of the small colony as well as bringing up differences of opinion on how (and whether) to use the remaining technology and resources (including their surviving planetary shuttle). When Savin
11-year-old Josie arrives in upstate New York to live with her great-aunt after her mother abandons her father for no apparent reason. There, she meets her 25-year-old cousin, Jared, who is studying to be a minister. Her stay is very unpleasant; she is physically and psychologically abused by both her mother and great-aunt. She is also bullied without mercy at her new school. Her mother turns her away for love and comfort. Feeling abandoned and unloved, she turns to Jared for the affection she longs for. However, Jared's intents are anything but to love and care for her. He uses false affection to get her to self-mutilate herself, drink her own blood, look at pornographic material, and endure verbal abuse from him. He soon begins sexually abusing her, which Josie mistakes to be him expressing true love to her, although she knows that what they are doing is wrong. Josie eventually discovers that her mother is incapable of love because she was always felt unimpressed by Josie's father and several other men. After staying there for an extended period of time, Josie starts to have a psychological breakdown within herself, probably from her taboo relationship with Jared. At one point in the novellette, she and Jared, after initiating sexual intercourse by a creek, sit together. Then, Jared cuts his chest with a stone, and Josie licks the blood off before he dies from blood loss. This is the climax of the novella. After, she leaves the mansion, breaking free of
This is the third book in the War of the Spider Queen series. After emerging from the portal that they used to escape the city of Ched Nasad, the drow party plans its next phase of the mission. They decide to consult a priest of Vhaerun to see if any of the other deities know what has become of Lloth. Valas Hune knows where such a priest can be found and believes that this priest may help them in their quest. Valas' friend is far away, however, and the last thing that the party wants is to travel a huge distance to get to them, so on Pharaun Mizzrym's advice they decide to shadow walk to get there. The journey has some minor battles but nothing this group can't handle. They end up back in the Underdark after their journey and in the Domain of the duergar. It becomes evident that to get where they are going, they must travel through the home city of the duergar and will need passports to get through unharmed. The group rests for days in the city while they search for means to obtain these documents. Meanwhile in Menzoberranzan, Gromph Baenre learns of an impending duergar invasion, and rushes to alert the ruling council until the lichdrow Lord Dyrr stops him. A duel is fought in Gromph's own sanctuary, but the lich prevails and imprisons Gromph in a glass sphere. Eventually, Matron Triel Baenre does learn of the impending duergar attack (Nimor Imphraezl posing
Esther Waters is born to hard-working parents who are Plymouth Brethren in Barnstaple. Her father's premature death prompts her mother to move to London and marry again, but Esther's stepfather turns out to be a hard-drinking bully and wife-beater who forces Esther, a natural beauty, to leave school and go out to work instead, thus greatly reducing her chances of ever learning how to read and write, and Esther remains illiterate all her life. Her first job ("situation") outside London is that of a kitchen maid with the Barfields, a nouveau riche family of horse breeders, horse racers and horse betters who live at Woodview near Shoreham. There she meets William Latch, a footman, and lets herself be seduced by him. Dreaming of a future with Latch, she is dismayed to find that he is having an affair with the Barfields' niece, who is staying at Woodview. After Latch and his lover have eloped together, Esther stays on at Woodview until she cannot hide her pregnancy any longer. Although she has found a kindred soul in Mrs Barfield, who is also a Plymouth Sister and abhors the betting on horses going on all around her, Esther is dismissed ("I couldn't have kept you on, on account of the bad example to the younger servants") and reluctantly goes back to London. With the little money she has saved, she can stay in a rented room out of her stepfather's sight. Her mother is pregnant with her eighth child and dies giving
This story is an example of one of the many unjust acts by both the provincial governments and the national Qajar Regime which led to the Constitutional Revolution. In the province of Quchan, the provincial governor, Asaf al-Dawlah, set a flat tax for all of the people, regardless of their income. The poor could not afford to pay this tax, due to a bad harvest, and the only way they could raise the money was to sell their daughters to the elite Turkmen or to nomads. Turkmen also began raiding the village and capturing the women. When the citizens begged for payment postponement, they were shot and killed by provincial government officials. About two hundred and fifty girls had been sold and they became known as “The Daughters of Quchan”. This incident portrays Iranian women as being “objects of traffic” and clearly speaks to the issue of poverty and the social injustice people faced under this government. The people of Quchan went to the central government to protest and ask for help. Finally an investigator was sent to Quchan, who was bribed by the provincial governor, and did not report the inequality to the central government. The citizens went back to the central government again to protest and eventually the issue was resolved. This story was published in newspapers all over Iran and caused a public outcry for social justice and a parliamentary government. Muhammad Husayn Tabataba’i, one of the most prominent philosophers of the time, was particularly irate and
Many of the events of Winter's Heart take place simultaneously with the events of the next book, Crossroads of Twilight. Perrin Aybara and his followers pursue the Shaido Aiel who kidnapped his wife, Faile Bashere. Elayne Trakand attempts to solidify her grip on the Lion Throne and put down rebellious nobles. Mat Cauthon, making his return to the series after his absence in the previous book, is trapped in the city of Ebou Dar in Altara, which is under Seanchan occupation. He plans his escape, but in the end, his plans are disrupted by the interference of a Seanchan noblewoman named Tuon, who is revealed as the Daughter of the Nine Moons, heir to the Seanchan Crystal Throne. Mat, having heard a prophecy about him marrying the Daughter of the Nine Moons, kidnaps Tuon instead of tying her up and leaving her behind. Rand al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn, is bonded as a Warder by Elayne Trakand, Aviendha, and Min Farshaw. He hunts down Asha'man traitors in Far Madding and kills most of them. Lan also kills Toram Riatin in a duel. Caught by guards, he is imprisoned for a short time but is set free by Cadsuane and the other Aes Sedai who followed him. Rand and Nynaeve al'Meara Travel to Shadar Logoth. There, defended by Cadsuane Melaidhrin's Aes Sedai and loyal Asha'man against the Forsaken, Rand and Nynaeve link and use the Choedan Kal to cleanse saidin of the Dark One's taint so that men who channel will no
The novel was written in 1914. It is set a few years previous and is divided into three parts. In the first part, Sensei and I, the narrator, a guileless university student, befriends an older man, Sensei (most of the characters' real names are not given). Sensei lives as a recluse, interacting only with his wife and the narrator, and occasional unseen visitors, but still maintaining a distance between himself and them. He regularly visits the grave of a friend, but for the moment refuses to tell the narrator any details of his earlier life. In the second part, My Parents and I, the narrator graduates and returns to his home in the country to await his father's death. As his father lies dying, the narrator receives a letter from Sensei which is recounted in the third part of the novel, Sensei and His Testament. Sensei reveals that in his own university days he was cheated out of most of his fortune by his uncle. As a result he moved to Tokyo and began living with a widow and her daughter, with whom he fell in love. Later he convinced his childhood friend (known only as K), who was in dire straits, to move in with him. Gradually K recovered, but also fell in love with the landlady's daughter. K confessed this love to Sensei, who was shocked, and later full of jealousy. Sensei then proposed marriage, and shortly after, K committed suicide. Sensei, who had lost his faith in
The book begins with a book on the "foundations" of the painter's art. This introductory book has fourteen chapters on art theory listing such subjects as landscapes, animals, drapery, and arrangements of subjects. The following books are set up as lists of biographies or "explanations". Van Mander split his book into six basic parts that have separate title pages and are indexed. Because the pages are numbered only on the right-hand page, the indexes have an addendum to the page number to indicate the front (recto) or back (verso) of the "folio" to be able to locate text more efficiently. Looking up painters remains difficult because the indexes use first names rather than last names, since the last names in use by the painters themselves were not consistent in all regions where the painters were active. Many painters were better known by their nicknames than their given names. For this reason, the spelling of the names used in the text do not always match the names in the indexes. * Foundations (Den Grondt der Edel vry Schilder-const: Waer in haer ghestalt, aerdt ende wesen, de leer-lustighe Jeught in verscheyden Deelen in Rijm-dicht wort voor ghedraghen.) * Lives of ancient Egyptian, Greek and Roman painters (Het Leven Der oude Antijcke doorluchtighe Schilders, soo wel Egyptenaren, Griecken als Romeynen) * Lives of modern Italian painters (Het Leven Der Moderne, oft dees-tijtsche doorluchtighe Italiaensche Schilders.) * Lives of great Dutch and German painters (Het Leven der Doorluchtighe Nederlandtsche, en Hooghduytsche Schilders.) * Explanation
The book opens with an extract from The Book of Dreams, which contains the imaginative writings of Howard Alan Treesong during his unhappy childhood. Among other things, it details the adventures of Seven Paladins, who are key to the fantasy world he devises. Gersen's pursuit of Treesong begins after a conversation with an Interworld Police Coordinating Commission (IPCC) contact, who remarks that the arch criminal has been quiet as of late. Some years earlier, he made himself "Lord of the Overmen" (or "King of Thieves" in less grandiose language) and as recently as three years ago, he almost engineered his appointment as head of the IPCC itself. Gersen and his friend grudgingly admire Treesong's ambition to control the criminal underworld and the Oikumene's sole interstellar police agency at the same time. Gersen concludes that Treesong must be due for another grand gesture any time soon, but admits to himself he possesses insufficient imagination to visualize what it could be. His extensive business empire, managed by Jehan Addels, includes Cosmopolis magazine, for which he often masquerades as the journalist "Henry Lucas". Gersen spends some time examining the Cosmopolis files for any material relating to Treesong. He is on the point of giving up when he discovers a photograph, apparently of a formal dinner, bearing the words "H A Treesong is here". No other likeness of Treesong is known to exist - and the woman who had sold it to the magazine had apparently been killed for it. But there is no
It is a future history, set from 1994 to 2194. It tells the story, with chapters at 50-year intervals, of the exploration of the solar system, with space stations in Earth orbit, then moon bases, and landings on Mars in 2094, Venus in 2144, and the asteroids. This is told through the Troon family, several members of which play an important part in the exploration of space, since they all feel "the outward urge", the desire to travel further into space. They all "hear the thin gnat-voices cry, star to faint star across the sky", a quote from The Jolly Company by Rupert Brooke. In 1994 "Ticker" Troon is killed foiling a Soviet missile attack on a British space station, and is later awarded a posthumous Victoria Cross. In 2044 a major nuclear war between the USSR and the West wipes out most of the Northern Hemisphere. Inhabitants of the Southern Hemisphere - virtually the only survivors of humanity - call it "The Great Northern War", the far earlier war of the same name seeming very minor in comparison. Only after hundreds of years, with radioactivity going down, do expeditions from the south start carefully exploring and preparing to re-colonise the ravaged northern hemisphere. Brazil is left as the main world power, which then claims that "Space is a province of Brazil". However Australia eventually emerges as a serious rival. Consequently, English and Portuguese become contenders for the position of the major world-wide (eventually, Solar System wide) language. Eventually, space
The Book of Sorrows begins almost exactly where the last book ended. The great war is over and Chauntecleer and his animals are all mending the damage that it left. Chauntecleer leads them on a journey to find a new resting place, while the climate slowly changes from summer to autumn. Early in their journey the animals are obligated to care for Russell, the fox, one of the main characters from the last novel, who suffered poisoning from biting into too many basilisks during the conflict. Russel's injury has caused his lips and nose to crack and ooze. It seems that it will never heal because the fox has trouble keeping quiet. Pertelote, Chauntecleer's wife, is reduced to drugging the fox with a narcotic in hopes that it will keep him from using his mouth long enough for it to heal. Freitag, the mouse brother who is closest to Russel, tries continually to get him to stop talking, but- of course- the fox doesn’t listen. He instead brings Freitag to a nearby stream where he emphatically tells him how to catch minnows with his tail until his lips and nose begin to crack and bubble. The fox eventually breaks down during his lesson to the mouse and cries out, "I only want to talk!" The animals hear him and come to calm him down. He is near death and his injuries have retrogressed. The fox seems to have lost his will to live, for he is no longer speaking. Chauntecleer
The book's main thesis is that human civilisation greatly accelerated increases in the rates of evolution. The authors begin their discussion by quoting the conventional wisdom: :Something must have happened to weaken the selective pressure drastically. We cannot escape the conclusion that man’s evolution towards manness suddenly came to a halt. --Ernst Mayr, 1963. :There’s been no biological change in humans in 40,000 or 50,000 years. Everything we call culture and civilization we’ve built with the same body and brain --Stephen J. Gould, 2000. This had become the established viewpoint - when modern humans appeared, evolution was essentially over. The received wisdom is based on the doctrine that human minds are the same, everywhere: Bastian's Psychic Unity of Mankind. Unfortunately, the authors continue, this is no more than wishful thinking. Were it true, human bodies would also be the same worldwide, which clearly they are not. Finns cannot be mistaken for Zulus, nor Zulus for Finns. Not only are there strong reasons to believe that significant human evolution is theoretically possible, or even likely; it is completely obvious that it has taken place, assert the authors, since people look different from one another. The first four of the book’s seven chapters serve as a preamble to the final three. First, Cochran and Harpending present evidence for recent, accelerated human evolution after the invention of agriculture. In itself, this argument represents a paradigm shift, albeit one that now has clear data to back it up. tie the advent of agriculture —
While studying the archaeological records of the now-destroyed planet Sarpeidon, a scholar aboard the USS Enterprise finds pictures of an ice-age cave painting that depicts a Vulcan face. Spock realizes that his involvement with Zarabeth in the episode "All Our Yesterdays" resulted in the birth of a child. Along with Captain Kirk and Dr. McCoy, he uses the Guardian of Forever (featured in the episode "The City on the Edge of Forever") to journey back into Sarpeidon's past and rescue his son. Due to a miscalculation, they find a young man of twenty-eight instead of a child, who tells them that his name is Zar and that his mother Zarabeth died in an accident many years before. Spock introduces himself but refuses to allow Zar to call him "Father." Zar returns to the Enterprise and passes as a distant relative of Spock, who oversees his education and attempts to train him in Vulcan telepathic techniques. They discover that Zar is an unusually strong telepath for a Vulcan; he can establish contact without touching the other person. Zar becomes conflicted and hurt by his father's apparent refusal to acknowledge him. The Enterprise is called back to the planet Gateway to protect the Guardian of Forever from a Romulan intelligence raid. It is imperative to the security of the United Federation of Planets that the Romulans not discover the Guardian's powers; if they cannot be driven away, Gateway must be destroyed. The Romulans place a force field around the Guardian and hide
Inspector Ghote's wife Protima has inherited a fortune and a mansion in Calcutta. Ghote is not pleased because it means he must leave his native Mumbai and give up being a policeman. No sooner have they landed in Calcutta than they discover the house is crumbling and inhabited by hostile squatters. Also a housing development is planned in the wetlands behind the house, which has the only access to the proposed construction project. The solicitor in charge of the administering the will, A. K. Dutt-Daster, advises them to sell promptly and return home, but Ghote suspects corruption. As Ghote investigates he uncovers a web of corruption that leads inexorably higher and higher in Calcutta's social and political hierarchy. On the way he encounters the easily bribed solicitor's clerk, who is soon murdered for obtaining incriminating documents from Dutt-Daster's files, he is assaulted under The Great Banyan tree in the Indian Botanical Gardens, meets a crusading newspaper editor who chooses his crusades very carefully, a cynical and corrupt Police Inspector and a powerful businessman who doesn't believe corruption is a bad thing. Powerful forces are aligned against the elderly couple and ultimately they cannot be overcome. Finally Ghote finds himself obliged to pay a handsome bribe simply so the couple can escape from Calcutta with their freedom and lives. Corruption and bribery will always be a part of life no matter how much people fight against it, Ghote reflects on the way home, but that is not a valid reason to
The story begins with Vitalstatistix receiving a missive from his brother Doublehelix in Lutetia (modern-age Paris) who wants his aid in making a man of his teenage son, Justforkix. Justforkix arrives in a sports car-like chariot, and comes across as a happy-go-lucky urbanite with an air of superiority about him. Conflict soon emerges between the city boy and the country folk. The village holds a dance in honour of his arrival but he is unimpressed by the simple traditional way of dancing, snatches Cacofonix's lyre and sings and plays in the manner of Elvix Preslix (the Rolling Menhirs in the English version). Some of the younger villagers soon catch on and dance to this new form. Outraged by this usurpation, Cacofonix tries to show off his own skills, but this of course leads to the break-up of the dance and a knock-out blow from Fulliautomatix. Justforkix on the other hand is impressed and suggests that Cacofonix's talents would be better appreciated in Lutetia. On the whole, though, Justforkix is quickly bored with the village. This changes, however, when a Norman ship arrives. The Normans (actually Vikings from the frozen north) have decided to come to Gaul not for plunder, but for learning: they are fearless to the point of not feeling fear or even understanding the concept. This causes many problems for them, including the contempt of children for parental discipline, the inability to cure hiccups &mdash; which can be cured by giving the person a fright &mdash; and lack
The story begins with the arrival not of a detective, but of disaster: Badfort is for sale, but when Uncle decides to buy it, demolish it, and build a pleasantly appointed park on the site, he is forestalled. Beaver Hateman has sold it cheaply to someone on the condition that he, Hateman, is allowed to stay on as a paying guest. Forgetting that the man who has bought Badfort is certain to regret the "bargain", Uncle tries to console himself by continuing his never-ending exploration of Homeward. He comes across the Art Gallery, reached along Quack Walk between two ponds crowded with noisy and aggressive ducks. En route he discovers the mysterious Crack House, which is the lair of a vicious and horribly squawking creature, half-bat, half-bird, called Batty. After visiting the Art Gallery and discovering that Batty is persecuting the curator and his family, Uncle has Batty expelled from Crack House and pursues a report of buried treasure there. Constant trips to Crack House have accustomed the ducks to passers-by, and Uncle's miserly friend Alonzo S. Whitebeard foolishly tries to take advantage of their docility: :This time the ducks were much quieter. They seemed so docile and friendly that Whitebeard captured one and tried to hide it under his beard, having visions of hot duck for supper. The duck nearly bit a piece out of his chest and Whitebeard flung it from him with a roar of pain. By now the Detective of the title has appeared: an elegant
Mr. Hoppy is a shy old man who lives alone in an apartment. For many years, he has been secretly in love with Mrs. Silver, a woman who lives below him. Mr. Hoppy frequently leans over his balcony and exchanges a polite conversation with Mrs. Silver, but he is too shy to disclose how he feels. Mrs. Silver has a small pet tortoise, Alfie, whom she loves very much. One morning, Mrs. Silver mentions to Mr. Hoppy that even though she has had Alfie for many years, he weighs only thirteen ounces, and she desires that he become a more attractive weight. This inspires Mr. Hoppy to claim that he can make tortoises grow bigger with a magic spell, which he tells Mrs. Silver will make Alfie grow if it is whispered into his ear three times a day. The title of the book comes from this spell, a simple invocation for a tortoise to grow, but with each word written backwards and some spaced unusually, such as "Esio Trot" (tortoise). Mrs. Silver is doubtful, but agrees to try. Mr. Hoppy then buys many tortoises of various sizes from various pet shops, none that weigh less than thirteen ounces. He houses them in a corral within the living room of his apartment, and with the help of a special long claw, can grab one tortoise from Mrs. Silver's balcony and replace it with a slightly larger one while she is away at work. All of the tortoises are similar enough
Tom Builder roams southern England, seeking work. He had lost his wife in childbirth. He encounters a woman Ellen, who lives in a forest cave with her son, Jack. (Jack's father was French and was executed after washing ashore and being with Ellen.) Tom settles in Kingsbridge with Ellen and Jack, and his own two children. He works for Prior Philip, who wants to expand his priory by rebuilding a cathedral. Philip appeals to King Stephen for financial support and is given land and the right to take stone from the quarry. The quarry has been granted to Percy Hamleigh as part of the earldom of Shiring. His interests are not in supporting the cathedral. Hamleigh wants to topple the earl Bartholomew, as his daughter, Aliena, rejected Hamleigh’s son William. William attacks Aliena and her brother Richard at the castle; he rapes the girl and injures the boy. Homeless and destitute, Aliena and Richard go to petition the king for aid; at the court, they find their dying father Bartholomew in prison. The siblings swear an oath to work for Richard to regain the earldom. Aliena supports Richard financially by becoming a wool merchant. He becomes a knight for King Stephen, fighting in the civil war against Maud. Richard gains the king's favour by defending him at the Battle of Lincoln. Tom, meanwhile, has been building the cathedral, and living with his children, Alfred and Martha, his lover Ellen and her son Jack. Alfred bullies Jack. When Ellen and Tom
The story revolves around Captain Nathan Hansard, an officer of the United States Army in the near future. In this future a machine has been developed to transmit matter instantly. The United States has created a Mars base, Camp Jackson Mars, to which supplies and personnel are transmitted regularly. Captain Hansard, stationed at Camp Jackson Earth, is going to be stationed there and thus is transmitted. At that moment Hansard discovers an unknown side effect of the process. He finds himself not on Mars but remaining on Earth, except in a phantom state, unable to be perceived by anyone in the original world and able to walk through buildings and swim through solid ground with minimal effort. The only items he can fully interact with are other copies of people or items sent through the matter transmitter. Air and water are available, in the vicinity of another transmitter that sends these to Mars, but he has no food and finds himself pursued by a group of soldiers in the same situation who have turned to cannibalism, waiting near the transmitter to kill other newly-created duplicates. Hansard is saved when he finds a friendly group comprising two duplicates of the transmitter's elderly and wheelchair-using inventor, Panofsky, and three of Panofsky's wife Bridgetta (who has adopted various distinguishing roles as Jet, Bridget and Bridie). They explain that each time anyone is transmitted, a copy (or "echo") of that person is made. The group is being provisioned by the original Panofsky, who believes
The setting is at a lakeside summer vacation house in Dutchess County, two hours north of New York City where eight gay friends spend the three major holiday weekends of one summer together for Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, and Labor Day. The house belongs to Gregory, a successful Broadway choreographer now approaching middle age, who fears he is losing his creativity; and his twenty-something lover, Bobby, a legal assistant who's blind. Each of the guests at their house is connected to Gregory’s work in one way or another - Arthur and longtime partner Perry are business consultants; John Jeckyll, a sour Englishman, is a dance accompanist; die-hard musical theater fanatic Buzz Hauser is a costume designer and the most stereotypically gay man in the group. Only John's summer lover, Ramon, and John's twin brother James are outside the circle of friends. But Ramon is outgoing and eventually makes a place for himself in the group, and James is such a gentle soul that he is quickly welcomed. Infidelity, flirtations, soul-searching, AIDS, truth-telling and skinny-dipping mix monumental questions about life and death with a wacky dress rehearsal for Swan Lake performed in drag.
A top secret research facility hidden in the Colorado mountains is the last remaining outpost of the United States Army after its defeat by the PanAsians. The conquerors had absorbed the Soviets after being attacked by them and had then gone on to absorb India as well. The invaders are depicted as ruthless and cruel—for example, they crush an abortive rebellion by killing 150,000 American civilians as punishment. The laboratory is in turmoil as the novel begins. All but six of the personnel have died suddenly, due to unknown forces released by an experiment operating within the newly-discovered magneto-gravitic or electro-gravitic spectra. The surviving scientists soon learn that they can selectively kill people by releasing the internal pressure of their cell membranes, among other things. Using this discovery they construct a race-selective weapon which will kill only Asians. They devise other uses for the awesome forces they have discovered, but how can a handful of men overthrow an occupation force that controls all communications and when it is a crime to print a word in English? Noting that the invaders have allowed the free practice of religion (the better to pacify their slaves), the Americans set up a church of their own and begin acting as "Priests of Mota" (Mota is atom spelled backwards) in order to build a resistance movement—which Major Ardmore, the protagonist of the book, refers to as the Sixth Column (as opposed to a traitorous fifth column).
Deenie chronicles the life of thirteen-year-old Wilmadeene "Deenie" Fenner, whose mother is determined to have her become a model. At the same time, Deenie's 16-year-old sister, Helen, who is academically proficient, is being pushed by their mother to keep her grades up so that she can eventually become a doctor or lawyer. One day, Deenie is diagnosed with scoliosis, and is prescribed a body brace to wear for the next four years. At the same time, Helen has fallen in love with Joey, a charming and romantic young gentleman who works for the family business (a gas station). Mrs. Fenner, upset that her plans for her daughters are coming undone, has Joey fired and still exhorts Deenie to pursue a modeling career once she stops wearing the back brace. Though fearful that Helen will hate her because Mrs. Fenner said that Joey was let go because of the family's doctors' bills, Deenie is astonished to learn that Helen refuses to blame her for Joey's departure, and the sisters close ranks. Though initially upset at having to wear the body brace, Deenie eventually resigns herself to her fate. She finds herself at peace with the idea of not becoming a model, and, inspired by her experience, begins to ponder a future career as an orthopedist, concluding that she never really wanted to be a model herself. The book concludes with Deenie asking her father to not wear the brace to a party, and though her mom is surprisingly relaxed about it,
The novel tells of "Love Story" is romantic and funny, yet a tragic story. It is the story of two young college grads, whose love was stronger than any of the tests life threw at them. Oliver Barrett IV, a Harvard jock and (very) rich heir to the Barrett fortune and legacy, and Jennifer Cavilleri, the quick-witted daughter of a Rhode Island baker. Oliver (Ollie) was expected to follow in his father's huge footsteps, while Jennifer (Jenny), a music major studying at Radcliffe College planned to study in Paris. From very different worlds, Oliver and Jenny immediately attracted and their love deepened. The story of Jenny and Ollie is a realistic story of two young people who come from two separate worlds and are joined together in the most unlikely of ways. Upon graduation from college, the two decide to marry against the wishes of Oliver's father, who thereupon severs all ties with his son. Without his father's financial support, the couple struggles to pay Oliver's way through Harvard Law School... with Jenny working as a private school teacher. Graduating third in his class, Oliver gets several job offers and takes up a position at a respectable New York law firm. Jenny promises to follow Oliver anywhere on the East Coast. The couple moves to New York City, excited to spend more time together... rather than in working and studying... as it was previously. With Oliver's new income, the pair of 24-year-olds decide to have a child. It is from
The Novel starts with the death of the father of Ruth Labadoor in front of her eyes in a church. This murder is committed by the Indian rebels who are a part of the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and who have decided to kill all the Britishers of the small town Shahjahanpur. It is then that Mariam Labadoor, who is the mother of the narrator, Ruth Labadoor comes into action. She takes their entire family of 6 to their trusted friend Lala Ramjimal who keeps them at his home and gives them the maximum security and shelter he can give. The Pathan leader Javed Khan comes to know that there are a few foreigners living in Lala's home and he suddenly comes into their house and forcefully takes away Ruth and Mariam Labadoor to his home. The rest of the book is followed by the various happening in the Labadoor family, who are very warmly welcomed by different family members of Javed Khan. But, Javed Khan himself is a cunning man and he pleads to marry Ruth Labadoor. Mariam saves her daughter many times as she does not want her to marry Javed Khan. She keeps a condition that if the British are able to take on the country once again, then she would not let him marry her daughter and if they lose from the rebels, then she would give her daughter to him. The British are able to take the hold of the country and Javed Khan is
Nicola's merlin, the Sprog, makes off from the train when she is on her way back to school, taking a sparrow for the first time in his life. Returning to the station, she finds a new girl, Esther Frewen. Esther's parents are divorced and have sent her to boarding school because she doesn't quite fit in their new lives. She is not too worried about this, but mainly about leaving her puppy, Daks, behind. A few weeks into term, Nicola, along with most of the school, is shocked to find that she has been left out of the Junior Netball team. In fact, this is the work of Lois Sanger, Nicola's old enemy and now school Games Captain. She is a soloist in the Christmas Play, but does not find this much consolation. Half-term is less fun than expected, mainly because Mrs Marlow's mother is visiting. Nicola and Patrick manage to sneak off for a day to visit Wade Minster and look at the carved falcon and then enjoy a cold, dark ride back over the downs, while Patrick recites the Lyke-Wake Dirge. Back at school, Nicola finds that she has been given the part of Shepherd Boy in the Christmas Play, the part Lawrie desperately wanted. Lawrie thinks this is treachery on a grand scale. However, when she falls and hurts her leg so that she cannot play in a netball match, she finds a possible solution. Nicola agrees to pretend to be Lawrie so that she can play
Harry Benson, a man in his 30s, suffers from psychomotor epilepsy. He often has seizures followed by blackouts, and then wakes up hours later with no knowledge of what he has done. During one of his seizures he severely beats two people. He is a prime candidate for an operation to implant electrodes and minicomputer in his brain to control the seizures. Surgeons John Ellis and Morris are to perform the surgery, which is unprecedented for the time. In modern medicine, such a device would be called a brain pacemaker. The ramifications of the procedure are questioned by psychiatrist Janet Ross, and by an emeritus professor named Manon at the lecture about the surgery. Manon raises concerns that Benson is psychotic (pointing to Benson's adamant belief that there is no difference between man and machine) and the crimes he commits during the blackouts won't be curtailed. Ellis admits that what they are doing isn't a cure but just a way to stimulate the brain when the computer senses a seizure coming on. It would prevent a seizure but not cure his personality disorder. Despite the concerns voiced, the team decides to go ahead with the operation. The operation implants forty electrodes in Benson's brain, controlled by a small computer that is powered by a plutonium power pack in his shoulder. Benson must wear a dog tag that says to call the University Hospital if he is injured, as his atomic power pack might emit radiation. While he is recovering, a
In London, Gabriel John Utterson, a prosecutor, is on his weekly walk with his relative Richard Enfield, who proceeds to tell him of an encounter he had seen some months ago while coming home late at night from Cavendish Place. The tale describes a sinister figure named Mr. Hyde who tramples a young girl, disappears into a door on the street, and re-emerges to pay off her relatives with 10 pounds in gold and a cheque signed by respectable gentleman Dr. Henry Jekyll (a client and friend of Utterson's) for 90 pounds. Jekyll having recently and suddenly changed his will to make Hyde beneficiary, Utterson is disturbed and concerned about this development, and makes an effort to seek out Hyde. This is instilled by Utterson's fear that Hyde is blackmailing Dr. Henry Jekyll for his money. Upon finally managing to encounter Hyde, Utterson is amazed by how ugly the man seems, as if deformed; though Utterson cannot say why exactly how this is so or why it is, Hyde seems to provoke an instinctive feeling of revulsion in him. Much to Utterson's surprise, Hyde willingly offers Utterson his address. After one of Jekyll's dinner parties, Utterson stays behind to discuss the matter of Hyde with Jekyll. Utterson notices Jekyll turning pale, yet he assures Utterson that everything involving Hyde is in order and to be left alone. A year passes uneventfully. One night, a servant girl witnesses Hyde beat a man to death with a heavy cane. The man is
This Garrett novel is a traditional whodunit. Garrett is approached by his old marine sergeant, Blake Peters, who calls in an old army debt to get Garrett to investigate the mysterious illness afflicting his current employer, General Stantnor. Garrett moves into the Stantnor mansion, to find that only a handful of individuals still inhabit the property and keep it from crumbling into ruin. As Garrett begins his investigation, an unknown individual begins murdering the few remaining members of the household. When some of the recently murdered individuals come back from the dead and attack the living house guests, Garrett calls upon his good friend Morley Dotes for backup. As the focus of Garrett's investigation switches to solving the ongoing murders, he continues to be distracted by two elusive beauties seen around the house: one is the general's daughter Jennifer, but the other can only be seen by Garrett, who suspects that she may in fact be a ghost. While Garrett escapes multiple murder attempts on his own life, other members of the household are not so lucky, and the list of potential suspects grows shorter and shorter. Morley, meanwhile, suspects the general's illness is not a result of poison but possibly of the supernatural. As the pieces start to come together, Garrett and Morley hire an exorcist by the name of Doctor Doom, and with the remaining house staff gathered, they confront the sick general in his quarters. It is revealed that the general murdered his wife, Eleanor, and the
The eponymous paradox of democracy that this collection of essays deals with is the internal conflict within modern democracy that is created by the union of two separate strands of political thought: the tradition of Classical Liberalism and the tradition of Democratic Theory, forming the institution of Liberal Democracy. Mouffe sees Radical Democracy as a means for continuing to sustain the balance between the values of liberalism and democracy. This balance is accomplished through the agonistic practice of valuing and sustaining dissent in the democratic process as a more important goal than consensus. This point is where Radical Democratic theory diverges from both Habermas and Rawls, as it contradicts Habermas's quest for rational consensus and Rawls's project for political liberalism. Mouffe describes the importance of the radical democratic alternative in a 2009 interview, saying that "The aim of a pluralist democracy is to provide the institutions that will allow them to take an agonistic form, in which opponents will treat each other not as enemies to be destroyed, but as adversaries who will fight for the victory of their position while recognising the right of their opponents to fight for theirs. An agonistic democracy requires the availability of a choice between real alternatives."
The story is introduced with the characters Marianne, Nash and Pietra. Pietra tricks Marianne by drugging her which leads to Nash brutally beating Marianne to death, his last words to her being: "Tell Cassandra I love her." They remove her clothes then dress her to look like a prostitute and toss her body in a dumpster (skip). The action switches to Tia and Mike Baye who never imagined they'd become spying, overprotective parent. But their sixteen-year-old son, Adam Baye has been unusually distant and aloof lately, and after the recent suicide of his classmate and closed friend, Spencer Hill, who taking vodka and tablets on his school's roof in the night to death, they can't help but worry. They install a spy program on Adam's computer and within days they are jolted by a strange message to their son from a correspondent known only as CeeJay8115: "Just stay quiet and all safe." The detective investigating Marianne's murder, Loren Muse, realizes that Marianne is not a prostitute and that someone has gone to great lengths to try to fool the authorities. However, the face of Marianne has been so badly mutilated it is impossible for anyone to identify her. Susan and Dante Loriman meet with their son's (Lucas) doctor (Mike Baye) only to be told Lucas needs a kidney transplant urgently. Neither parent is a suitable match and with some investigating, Mike finds out that Dante is not the biological father to Lucas. Meanwhile, browsing through an online memorial for her
The story starts in Berlin, March 1933, when nine-year-old Anna, the main character in the trilogy, finds out her father is missing one morning. She and her brother, Max, discover that Papa thinks that Hitler might win the elections, and has fled to Prague. Because the family is Jewish, and Papa is also a well-known Jewish author, this is important. If Hitler was to win the elections, Mama, Max and Anna would join him in Switzerland. If he was to lose, then Papa would come back home to Berlin. However, the plan goes wrong, and Mama and the children are rushed into Switzerland in alarming secrecy. It is at this time that Anna has to choose which toy she wishes to take with her. She opts to take her new woolly dog, and leave behind her pink rabbit toy, believing she will return to Berlin after a short time. It is from this that the title is derived as she considers that Hitler and the Nazis have "stolen" her toy. There, they settle in a Swiss boarding house, and the family stay there for a few months. But soon, Papa thinks that they should move to Paris, and goes there to find out about accommodation. Papa comes back and wants Mama to come back with him as a prospective buyer. So Max and Anna are left on their own for a little while. The Nazis find out about Papa as he travels, and a price of one thousand marks is
Volpone, a Venetian gentleman, pretends to be on his deathbed after a long illness in order to dupe Voltore, Corbaccio and Corvino, who aspire to his fortune. They each arrive in turn, bearing luxurious gifts with the aim of being inscribed as Volpone's heir. Mosca, Volpone's "parasite", encourages them, making each of them believe that he has been named as the heir in the will, and getting Corbaccio to disinherit his son in favour of Volpone. Mosca mentions to Volpone that Corvino has a beautiful wife, Celia, and Volpone goes to see her in the disguise of Scoto the Mountebank. Corvino drives him away, but Volpone is now insistent that he must have Celia for his own. Mosca tells Corvino that Volpone requires to sleep with a young woman to help revive him. Corvino offers Celia in order to please Volpone. Just before Corvino and Celia are due to arrive for this to take place, Corbaccio's son Bonario arrives to catch his father in the act of disinheriting him. Mosca guides him into a sideroom. Volpone is left alone with Celia, and after failing to seduce her with promises of luxurious items and fantasies, attempts to rape her. Bonario comes forward to rescue Celia. However, in the ensuing courtroom sequence, the truth is well-buried by Mosca, Volpone and all three of the dupes. There are episodes involving the English travellers Sir and Lady Politick Would-Be and Peregrine. Sir Politic constantly talks of plots and his outlandish business plans, while Lady
Through the narrator's first person account we hear the story of the people and the events of iDEATH. The central tension is created by Margaret, once a lover of the narrator, and inBOIL, a rebellious man who has left iDEATH to live near a forbidden area called the Forgotten Works. It is a huge trash heap where the remnants of a former civilization lie abandoned in great piles. Margaret, a collector of such 'forgotten things', is friendly with inBOIL and his followers, who explore the place and make whiskey. inBOIL's separation from the group may have been related to the annihilation of 'The Tigers', killed many years previously by the people. It is unknown to the reader whether 'The Tigers' were actual tigers, human beings or somehow anthropomorphic: while the tigers would kill and eat people (including the narrator's parents) they could also talk, sing, play musical instruments and were at least competent with arithmetic. Two tigers were killed on a bridge (known later as 'the abandoned bridge'). The last tiger was killed on a spot later developed into a trout farm. In the violent climax of the novel, inBOIL returns to the community along with a handful of followers, planning, he says, to show the residents what iDEATH really is. The residents know only that "something" is about to happen—for all they know, inBOIL could be plotting to kill them all. Margaret appears oblivious to the threats, and unconcerned about the safety of her own family and friends. Many
The book picks up where the first left off at the Confederate victory at Gettysburg. General Robert E. Lee and his troops march on Washington, D.C., and launch an assault, hoping that if they can take the capital they can win the war. Meanwhile, President Abraham Lincoln has appointed Major General Ulysses S. Grant commander of all Union forces with orders to attack Lee. Grant masses his forces (the newly minted Army of the Susquehanna) at Harrisburg, while Maj. Gen. Daniel E. Sickles gains control (through his violent pacification of the New York Draft Riots) of the Army of the Potomac. Sickles has his eye on the White House, but he needs to defeat Lee to win the Civil War for the War Democrats. Violating orders from Grant, he rolls his troops out to meet Lee's army alone. A sidebar shows Napoleon III planning to invade the United States through a colony in Mexico. Lee, bloodily repulsed at Fort Stevens outside Washington (the black troops of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry regiment playing a decisive role), turns on Baltimore. Abandoned by the Union, Baltimore descends into chaos. Using Baltimore to threaten Washington, Lee instead turns his entire army upon the advancing Sickles. The Army of the Potomac is destroyed in a rout, with Sickles losing a leg in the process (as he did in the real Battle of Gettysburg). The battle pens Lee up in Maryland, however, leaving Virginia wide open as Grant and William T. Sherman converge on it via
The Barnabas family is no stranger to mystery, one of the founder's nephews, Tom Barnabas, having disappeared from the street in broad daylight never to be seen again. When it is remarked, at a Sunday evening gathering held by Gina Brande in her flat next door to the offices, that Paul Brande, her husband, has not been home for three days, no-one finds it too remarkable. Shortly after the arrival of his old friend Albert Campion to look into the vanishing, Mike, Paul's younger cousin and clearly in love with Gina, goes to the vault to fetch some papers for the eldest cousin, the Barnabas MD, John Widdowson, and returns looking shaken, but says nothing. Next morning, Paul's body is found sprawled in plain view at the front of the vault. The doctor is called, sees Paul has been dead for several days, and a decision is made to move the body upstairs. Mike is sent to warn Mrs Brande. Campion investigates the scene of the crime, and finds a recently-broken ventilator to the rear of the vault, leading to a garage. Questioning staff, he discovers that the position of the body made it impossible for Mike to have missed him the night before. The police find a length of rubber pipe stained with soot. At the inquest, the doctors and police reveal that Paul was killed by carbon monoxide inhalation, the pipe having been used to connect the exhaust of Mike's car to the vault ventilator. A neighbour testifies
The novel is prefaced by a section entitled "Questions", which consists of four passages numbered in Roman numerals. I Chandra Chagoo is threatened by Abdul Khan, who believes Chagoo has been asking questions in order to gather evidence for the police. II Dr Gauri Subbiah contemplates confronting Chagoo and demanding exactly what he knows about her past. She fears he knows everything. III Dr Ram Mahipal lectures a class of medical students about the importance of asking questions. Privately he contemplates imminent professional ruin for asking the wrong question. IV Professor Phaterpaker also contemplates professional ruin as a result of Ram Mahipal's question, the answer to which Chagoo already knows. The preface ends. The main body of the novel begins with the heading: Answer The Commissioner tells Ghote that a criminal named Abdul Khan has supplied Bombay film stars with drugs from the Mira Behn Institute. Ghote is ordered to find who stole drugs from the institute and arrest them under a false charge to prevent a scandal. Ghote tells the Commissioner that he recently caught an airline stewardess, Nicky D'Costa, smuggling drugs for Abdul Khan. The Commissioner says he will assign another officer to manage Nicky D'Costa as an informant and that it will take a better officer than Ghote to bring Abdul Khan to justice. Ghote questions Asha Rani, a movie star. Her "friend" Mr Ganguly took a sample of a medicine called A.C.E. and nearly died. Khan, who also supplied Mr Ganguly with cocaine, supplied the A.C.E.
After a badger attack destroys much of ThunderClan's camp, Brook Where Small Fish Swim (Brook) and Stormfur, old friends of ThunderClan, help to rebuild the camp. The battle is not without its consequences, as both the medicine cat Cinderpelt and the warrior Sootfur die. The battle rekindles Squirrelflight's love for Brambleclaw (following a conflict between the two during the previous book), leading her to have an argument a few days after with Ashfur, whom she had moved to following her separation from Brambleclaw. All of the Clans are grieving for the death of Cinderpelt. Leafpool finds herself struggling between grief and betrayal, for she has not seen Cinderpelt in the ranks of StarClan. During a visit to the Moonpool, where medicine cats share dreams with StarClan each month, former medicine cat Spottedleaf goes to Leafpool in a dream and shows her that Cinderpelt is reborn in the form of Cinderkit, one of Sorreltail's four kits whom Cinderpelt died protecting. After months of waiting and with persuasion from Brambleclaw, Stormfur, the new medicine cat Leafpool and his own mate Sandstorm, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan, finally declares that his friend and deputy Graystripe is not going to return after being abducted by humans in Dawn. When a dream from StarClan, the spirits of the cats' ancestors, tells Leafpool that Brambleclaw should be the new deputy, Firestar agrees and appoints Brambleclaw as the new deputy. The decision is met with objection, because Brambleclaw had never mentored an apprentice, a requirement for becoming deputy.
The play tells the story of Vittori, admiral to Cesario, prince of Naples. Both Vittori and Cesario are competitors for the hand of Cassandra; on her account Cesario breaks off his intended marriage with Rosinda, princess of Sicily. In response to this insult, the Sicilians attack Naples. Cesario sends Vittori to command his fleet in defense, hoping his admiral will be killed – but Vittori is, as his name suggests, victorious. The Admiral, however, finds that the city gates are closed to him on his return, and that his prince is conspiring against him. Vittori flees with his father and Cassandra; but the father, Alphonso, is captured by the Neapolitans, while Vittori and Cassandra are shipwrecked and captured by the Sicilian forces. The King of Sicily, preparing to lay siege Naples, offers to spare Cassandra's life if Vittori joins his forces; and Vittori agrees. Yet he learns that his father will be beheaded if he keeps to his bargain with the King; the choice between the lives of his father and his love is a typical tragicomic dilemma. Cesario, however, is drawn to the Sicilian camp by a letter from Cassandra, and there he too is captured. The Sicilian princess Rosinda counters by surrendering to the Neapolitans, which forces the arrangement of a peace treaty. Vittori and Cassandra marry, as do Cesario and Rosinda. The play's mandatory comic subplot features Rosinda's cowardly servant Pazzorello.
Four archangels discuss how a simple assignment went so terribly wrong. The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are coming and so the Archangels found the perfect champions to save the world: fighters, warriors, and soldiers. These chosen champions must drink a shooter that will imbue them with divine powers to battle the Four Horsemen. A mistake is made when four random women drink the divine concoction. Alexandra Carlton, Julia Wolfe, Emily Keller and Dinah Medrano must all take up the mantles of champions. Alexandra Carlton, a waitress at a sports bar, inadvertently becomes the champion destined to take on the First Horseman of the Apocalypse by drinking a shooter given to her as a tip. Shortly thereafter, she meets the Archangel Raphael, who has been charged with preparing Alexandra for her quest. The story focuses on Alexandra's attempts to learn “the ways of the Horseman” in order to stop him, as increasingly erotic visions of that Horseman and Raphael's apparent reluctance to give her any useful information thwart her. A refugee lawyer, Dinah Medrano, is approached by the Archangel Michael to be a champion to defend the Earth from the Apocalypse, specifically the Horseman of War. At first, Dinah is resistant to the presented challenge because she is convinced that Michael is not sane. However, when she realizes she has been gifted with powers to manipulate water and heal people, Dinah accepts Archangel Michael’s challenge in order to save her sister, Fatima, who is suffering from cancer. The story focuses
New school year starts. Chloe's friend, Emma, left school and she feels lonely. Luckily she finds a new friend, Jasmin Johnson. Jasmin helps her with sending an e-mail to Jack Kempton - a boy, whom she met during holidays in Greece. Meanwhile, Sinéad meets her friends from Burnthedge - Bianca and Abby. The girls receive presents from Sinéad - a pearl and a bracelet. When they realise how much money Sinéad's family has, they start to make Sinéad spend it for their clothes and accessories. Sinéad does not see anything wrong in it, until she overhears Bianca's and Abby's conversation about her. She ends friendship with them and finds a new friend - Chloe, who was her enemy for a while. Nick starts new school, but he is very upset. He meets Sanjay Fraser, who is short and everybody from his class think he is a weirdo. Nick talks to him, but Sanjay is sad, because Nick is tall and he always knows, what to say. Luckily, he discovers that Nick is not as self-confident as he looks and they become friends. Sanjay is very pleased with Nick being nice to his sister, Rani. Chloe has a birthday party at Jasmin's parents' cafe. She invites Nick, Sanjay, Jasmin and Sinéad. Sanjay talks to Jasmin and he falls in love with her. Sinéad wants to impress Nick, but she knows that he's in love with Chloe and she can't change it.
When the wealthy and eligible Earl of Rule proposes marriage to Elizabeth Winwood, she resigns herself to marrying against her will to rescue the fortunes of her impoverished family. Her youngest sister Horatia decides to take matters into her own hands, meeting with the Earl and convincing him to marry her instead of Elizabeth, thus leaving Elizabeth free to marry her true (but far less eligible) love. Part of the deal she proposes to Rule is that she will not interfere with his activities after their marriage. The wedding takes place and, as tacitly agreed upon, the Earl continues his association with his mistress, Lady Caroline Massey. Horatia quickly becomes a popular and fashionable society wife, spending vast amounts of money on sensational outfits and at gambling on cards. The Earl is also obliged to make regular financial donations to support Horatia's likeable but debt-ridden brother, Pelham. Meanwhile, Horatia meets and befriends Lord Lethbridge, who seeks revenge on the Earl for his role in thwarting Lethbridge's attempts to elope with Lady Louisa (Rule's sister) several years earlier. Lethbridge gains Horatia's favour by staging a hold-up of Horatia's carriage, where he heroically rides up to save her from the highwaymen. The Earl warns Horatia against continuing her friendship with Lethbridge, but when he declines to explain why, Horatia disregards his warning. Horatia, who wants to teach her husband a lesson, goes to a masked ball that the Earl had forbidden her from attending, with Lord Lethbridge as her escort. Having heard
One day, the Popper family tunes in to a radio broadcast by an Admiral traveling to many countries. Mr. Popper had previously sent the Admiral fan mail, and the Admiral promises Mr. Popper a surprise. The surprise turns out to be a penguin, which comes in a large box. Mr. Popper names the penguin "Captain Cook" after the famous James Cook. Mr. Popper cleans out the icebox so that the penguin can sleep inside. As time goes by, the Poppers find that Captain Cook is growing large, but his health is failing. Mr. Popper writes to the curator of a large aquarium, asking for help. The curator replies that the aquarium has a female penguin, Greta, who unfortunately is also experiencing the same symptoms, and he suggests that perhaps the penguins are simply lonely. Soon after, the Poppers receive their second penguin in the mail. The pair of penguins are revitalized by each other's presence. As both birds cannot fit into the icebox together, Mr. Popper opens the window to let in the cold winter air, creating a snow-covered habitat. As this solution will not work in springtime, Mr. Popper has the main things moved upstairs and a freezing plant installed in the basement for the birds. As time passes, Greta lays an egg. She continues laying a new egg every three days until the total reaches ten. As penguins do not normally lay so many eggs, Mr. Popper attributes this to the change in climate the birds have experienced.
Lily Rowan has employed Amy Denovo, a recent Smith graduate, to assist her in collecting material about her father for a book. After a brief acquaintance with Archie Goodwin, Amy intercepts him one afternoon in the lobby of Lily's building. "It's very personal," Amy tells Archie as she asks for a few minutes of his time. Amy has never known her own father, and she asks Archie to help her find out who he is, or was. She believes her mother took the name Denovo — "de novo," Latin for "anew," "afresh" — because she began a new life after Amy was born. She can't be certain because Elinor Denovo was killed three months before, in a hit-and-run. Amy is curious about her mother, but she must know about her father — and the inquiry must be kept secret. Amy knows Archie is the only person she can trust. Although he is intrigued, Archie turns Amy down. Nero Wolfe charges high fees, and the $2,000 Amy has in the bank would not begin to cover what promises to be a long and expensive job. Archie floats the idea of having Lily supply the funds — she undoubtedly would — but Amy is adamant that no one is to know about the father hunt. Leaving Amy at a loss to know what she should do next, Archie goes to Saul Panzer's place to play poker — but the cards do not cooperate. The next afternoon, Amy arrives at the brownstone with
Each part of Walking on Glass, apart from the last, is divided into three sections, which appear at first sight to be independent stories. *Graham Park is a young man in love with a girl he met at a party, Sara ffitch. Richard Slater is his friend. Bob Stock, a "macho black-leathered never-properly-seen image of Nemesis" seems all that stands in the way of Graham's happiness. *Steven Grout is a paranoid roadmender who believes himself to be an admiral from a galactic war imprisoned in the body of an Earthman. He believes he is under constant threat from the Microwave Gun, and reads lots of science fiction, since "he had long ago realised that if he was going to find any clues to the whereabouts of the Way Out, the location or identity of the Key, there was a good chance he might get some ideas from that type of writing." *Quiss is one of a pair of war criminals (the other is Ajayi) from opposing sides in a galactic war, who are imprisoned in the Castle of Bequest (also Castle Doors) and forced to play impossible games until they can solve the riddle: "What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object?" Eventually, links between the three storylines become apparent, and the ending has a flavour of incest.
In German-occupied France, Jean Blomart sits by a bed in which his lover Hélène lies dying. Through a series of flashbacks, we learn about both characters and their relationship to each other. As a young man filled with guilt about his privileged middle-class life, Jean joins the Communist Party and breaks from his family, determined to make his own way in life. After the death of a friend in a political protest, for which he feels guilty, Jean leaves the Party and concentrates on trade union activities. Hélène is a young designer who works in her family's confectionary shop and is dissatisfied with her conventional romance with her fiancé Paul. She contrives to meet Jean and, though he initially rejects her, they form a relationship after she has had an abortion following a reckless liaison with another man. Caring for her happiness, Jean tells Hélène he loves her even though he believes that he does not. He proposes and she accepts. When France enter the Second World War, Jean, conceding the need for violent conflict to effect change, becomes a soldier. Hélène intervenes against his will to arrange a safe posting for him. Angry with her, Jean breaks their relationship. As the German forces advance towards Paris, Hélène flees and witnesses the suffering of other refugees. Returning to Paris, she briefly takes up with a German who could advance her career, but soon sees what her countrymen are suffering. She also witnesses the roundup of Jews. Securing the safety of
Set between June 1932 and December 1933, it tells the story of young Isao Iinuma, a rightist reactionary trained in the samurai code by his father. Isao becomes the instigator of a plot to topple the zaibatsu that he feels have corrupted the Yamato-damashii and betrayed the will of the Emperor. He is assured of the army's assistance by the young Lieutenant Hori. They plan to assassinate many key government figures simultaneously on December 3, 1932. Shigekuni Honda, a character who figured prominently in Spring Snow, the first novel of the cycle, appears again here as a judge and later lawyer. He comes to believe that Isao is the reincarnation of Kiyoaki Matsugae, the aristocratic schoolfriend whose story was told in Spring Snow. Realising that Isao too seems to be hurtling towards a "picturesque" death, he makes strenuous efforts to save him without revealing this personal connection. It is just after the May 15 Incident of 1932. Shigekuni Honda, the law student from Spring Snow, is now a junior associate judge at the Osaka Court of Appeals. He is asked by Judge Sugawa to give an address at a kendo tournament on June 16 at the Ōmiwa Shrine in Sakurai, Nara Prefecture. At the tournament, the chief priest points out to him a promising athlete called Isao Iinuma. Honda realises that this is the son of Shigeyuki Iinuma, Kiyoaki's old tutor, now a right-wing "personality". After lunch, Honda climbs the sugi-clad Mount Miwa, and afterwards descends to Sanko Falls to
Tristan is depicted as a prince of Lothian, whose king Rivalin married the sister of Mark of Cornwall, making Tristan the nephew King Mark. Tristan's mother is shown as dying in his childbirth, and his name as being from the latin root word trista http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/trista, reflecting the sadness of Rivalin at the loss of his wife. He journeys to the Kingdom of Cornwall in effort to prove himself, and enters the service of King Mark without revealing his identity. After defeating the Irish champion Morholt, Tristan's identity is revealed, and his position as Champion of Cornwall solidified. Having been wounded by the poisoned blade of Morholt, Tristan wastes away, eventually being set adrift in a boat by his own choice. He lands on the shores of Ireland, and his healed by the skills of Iseult of Ireland, although without actually meeting her. Upon returning to Cornwall, he is involved in a move to have King Mark marry. Tristan is sent on a quest to find a bride for the king, and winds up once again in Ireland. Tristan defeats a dragon, is once again healed by Iseult, and though given her hand in marriage as reward, promises to bring her back to Cornwall as bride for his Uncle. These events are shown in light of bringing peace to an ongoing war between the two kingdoms. Tristan and Iseult are stranded on a distant shore for a few days, delaying their return to Cornwall, and cementing their own love for each
The school has been run since its inception ten years earlier by two elderly educators, Mabel Edge and Hermione Baker, who are regarded by many as old spinsters hopelessly out of touch with reality, especially with what their teenage charges really think and feel. The 300 or so students are virtually indistinguishable from one another, a fact which is stressed by their names all starting with the letter M: Margot, Marion, Mary, Melissa, Merode, Midget, Mirabel, Moira. Their budding but suppressed sexuality&mdash;they are all between 16 and 18 years of age and "going to be attractive"&mdash;is constantly alluded to in the novel. ("They're only children, the girls I mean, and sex is unconscious at their age. It's such a temptation for a man.") Of the teaching staff, only few characters are mentioned. There is Miss Winstanley, young, colourless, and secretly in love with one of the few male teachers at the academy, economics tutor Sebastian Birt. Birt, however, a short and stout man in his late twenties, is having an affair with Elizabeth Rock, a 35 year-old woman recovering from a nervous breakdown who temporarily also lives on the school grounds, in her grandfather's cottage. That man, 76 year-old Mr Rock, is a retired scientist who has been granted the privilege to live there for the remainder of his life for past services rendered to the State. The aging Rock, who is referred to as "the sage" by some (including the narrator) and as "Gapa" by his granddaughter, spends his
The story is set only days after the conclusion of Taran Wanderer. It is nearly winter, less than two years after events of The Castle of Llyr. Taran and his companion Gurgi return from wandering to Caer Dallben, in haste after getting news from Kaw the crow that Princess Eilonwy has returned from the Isle of Mona. Indeed they find her at home, along with her escort King Rhun of Mona and the former giant Glew who had been magically restored to human size by potion from Dallben. Taran knows himself now and he is determined to propose marriage to Eilonwy. Before he gets to it, the bard-king Fflewddur Fflam and his mount Llyan arrive with a gravely injured Gwydion, Prince of Don. Servants of Arawn had ambushed them and seized the magical black sword Dyrnwyn. Fortunately their purpose was to secure it and depart. How did Taran escape, Fflewddur asks? Evidently Arawn himself came from Annuvin to the verge of Caer Dallben in the guise of Taran, with no more than the powers of Taran, in order to snare them. Because Dyrnwyn may be pivotal as a threat to Arawn, Dallben consults the oracular pig Hen Wen to determine how it may be regained. During the reading, the ash rods used to communicate shatter and the two thirds of Hen Wen's answer are discouraging and vague. When Gwydion heals sufficiently, he sets out with Taran and others to meet with King Smoit. Gwydion insists that he alone should enter
The book picks up immediately where The Maze Runner left off, in the middle of the night with Thomas struggling to sleep. After having a brief telepathic exchange with Teresa, Thomas eventually falls asleep and cannot get Teresa's calling attention. He wakes up suddenly to find victims of the Flare - severely mutated people called "Cranks" outside their barred windows, a hot sun beating down on the desert-like expanse outside. Thomas and the rest of the Gladers decide to investigate, finding the dead bodies of their rescuers hanging from the ceiling. They enter Teresa's room, which is empty, except for a boy that emerges out of the bathroom. Aris explains he is from Group B - fully girls except for him - and he can also talk telepathically. His telepathy partner, a girl named Rachel was killed in a similar manner as Chuck in the first book. Outside of the room is a plaque that says "Teresa Agnes. Group A, Subject A1. The Betrayer." An alarm, similar to the one on the Glade, goes off, and the room door locks until the alarm stops. Thomas opens the door to find no dead bodies. Even the plaque is changed to "Aris Jones, Group B, Subject B1. The Partner." They are stuck in the house for days without food, until food mysteriously arrives in the common room and a man dubbed the Rat Man is sitting behind a desk behind a sheet of invisible glass. He tells them they are to make
In March 1873, two Norwegian-born women were brutally murdered who lived on the desolate Smuttynose Island, one the Isles of Shoals off the coast of Maine and New Hampshire. Maren Hontvedt, a sister of one of the victims, survived by hiding in a sea cave until dawn. The murdered women were her older sister Karen Christensen and Anethe Christensen, their sister-in-law. A man named Louis Wagner was tried and hanged for their murders, mostly on circumstantial evidence. His conviction has been argued about, as some people think he could not have done it. More than a century later, Jean Janes, a magazine photographer working on a photo essay about the murders, returns to the Isles with her husband Thomas and five-year-old daughter. Thomas is an award-winning poet who has been struggling with alcoholism and not writing much. Hoping to have a small vacation, they travel on a boat skippered by Thomas' brother Rich, who has brought along his girlfriend Adaline. Jean becomes immersed in the details of the 19th-century murders after discovering a purported memoir of Maren in the library. Gradually, tensions increase among the group on the sloop, with unspoken emotions surfacing. Jean begins to suspect an affair between Thomas and Adaline. The novel is split into two parts: the present day, told from Jean's point of view and in the present tense; and 1873, told in first person from Maren's point of view, her "memoir."
Biron Farrill, about to complete studies at the University of Earth, is told by Sander Jonti that his father, a rich planetary leader known as Lord Rancher of Widemos, has been arrested and killed by the Tyranni and his own life may be in danger. On Jonti's advice, he travels to Rhodia, the strongest of the conquered planets. There he hears rumours of a world where rebellion against the Tyranni is secretly being plotted. Escaping with Artemisia oth Hinriad, the daughter of the Director of Rhodia and his brother Gillbret in a Tyranni spaceship, they travel to the planet Lingane. It is not a part of the Tyranni conquests, but maintains "peaceful" relations with them. There, they meet the Autarch of Lingane (who is revealed to be Sander Jonti, the man who sent Farrill to Rhodia from Earth), who seems to possess knowledge of a rebellion world. With him and his followers, the group travel to the heart of the Horsehead Nebula — they believe that for any rebellion world to exist and not be known to the Tyranni, it must be located in a place like the Horsehead Nebula. The Tyranni spaceship stolen by Farrill is being tracked by a fleet of Tyranni vessels led by Simok Aratap, the Tyrannian Commissioner. With him is the Director, who is shown to be nervous about his daughter's and brother's well-being. They keep themselves at a distance for fear of Farrill discovering them until Farrill lands on one planet in the heart
Eddie Coyle is an aging, low-level gunrunner for a crime organization in Boston, Massachusetts. He is awaiting sentencing after being convicted of a driving a hijacked truck in New Hampshire. Eddie had been driving the truck for Dillon, a convicted felon and career criminal who is well connected to the syndicate. Coyle has refused to give Dillon up to the authorities in exchange for leniency. Coyle's last chance to avoid a prison term is a sentencing recommendation from ATF Special Agent Dave Foley, who demands that Coyle become an informer in return. A gang led by Jimmy Scalise and Artie Van has been pulling off a series of daring day-time bank robberies with pistols supplied by Coyle. One of Coyle's sources for the pistols is a young gun runner, Jackie Brown, who is involved in a deal to supply military submachine guns for other clients. When taking the delivery of the pistols, Coyle finds out about the submachine guns and sets up Jackie for Foley. Jackie is apprehended by Foley and his agents and realizes he has been double-crossed by Coyle. Coyle feels he has fulfilled his end of the deal, but Foley puts the squeeze on Eddie, demanding more information for his cooperation. Acting on a tip, Foley and their agents are able to arrest Scalise and Van's gang in the commission of a robbery. A desperate Coyle approaches Foley with the only information of value he has, the identity of the gang pulling off the bank robberies, but
Giovanni is the son of the gardener to the Duke of Venice; though a commoner of the humblest station, he is a serious young man of admirable character &mdash; which attracts the attention of Bellaura, the Duke's niece. Giovanni decides to serve as a soldier in Genice's war with Genoa; Bellaura equips him with armor and with a letter of introduction to the military commander, who is her relative. Giovanni distinguishes himself notably in the campaign &mdash; so much so that the Duke tells him to name his own reward. With great hesitation, the courageous Giovanni asks for the hand of Bellaura in marriage. But the proud young lady refuses him, and Giovanni returns to his gardening. At the same time, the Duke's son Thomazo has been convicted of high treason. The court is astonished when his old nurse Ursula, Giovanni's mother, pleads for a pardon for him, announcing that Thomazo is really her son, while Giovanni is the rightful heir of Venice. Ursula had switched the two as infants. Giovanni is recognized and accepted as the Duke's son; he and Bellaura are married. In the subplot, Cornari is a wealthy gentleman of Venice (the play's title derives from this subplot) who laments the childlessness of his marriage with his wife Claudiana. He is determined that his debauched nephew Malipiero shall not inherit the Cornari estate. So Cornari abducts an English gentleman called Florelli, a man of virtue and valor, and imprisons the kidnapped man in his palace. Cornari's goal
While searching Jabba the Hutt's palace on Tatooine, Luke Skywalker and Han Solo learn that the Hutts are planning to build another superweapon. Meanwhile, in the Hoth Asteroid Belt, Durga the Hutt is planning a diplomatic mission to Coruscant, where he will secretly obtain the plans for the Death Star superlaser for Bevel Lemelisk, the Death Star's designer. Skywalker and Solo reveal their discoveries, but not before Durga's subordinates steal the plans from the Imperial Palace. In order to find out the location of the superweapon, the New Republic launches a covert operation to Nal Hutta, disguised as a diplomatic summit. Back at the Hoth asteroid belt, Lemelisk starts construction on the cylindrical superlaser, which he calls the "Darksaber" for its shape is similar to the hilt of a lightsaber. Luke and Callista embark on a vacation that eventually leaves them stranded near the Hoth asteroid belt. They are rescued by Han and Leia Organa Solo, who just returned from the successful mission on Nal Hutta. However, Luke and Callista's rescue is mainly thanks to the Republic fleet, who arrived to launch Crix Madine and his squad to locate the Darksaber reported to be under construction in the region. While Madine succeeds in relaying the location to the fleet, he is captured and killed by Durga. However, Durga's triumph is short-lived when the Republic fleet spots the Darksaber and begins pursuit. The Darksaber attempts to fire its superlaser and make an escape, but the weapon fails and the ship is
Nicholas Dee, a young, anxiety-ridden history professor, lives in an unnamed American city battered by winter storms, plagued by crime, and patrolled by police in choppers and riot gear. Haunted by memories of his brilliant father and by the fear of loss, Nicholas takes shelter in his research: a history of the practice of insurance. One night, after a chance encounter with the police, he is made the guardian of a beautiful teenaged delinquent, Oscar Vega. But the boy is a part of a scheme to ensnare Nicholas, the tool of a mysterious female dwarf named Amelia Weathered, once the lover of Nicholas' father. Made an outlaw, Nicholas flees with Amelia, her young son Francis, and Oscar to the half-drowned country of Holland, where the boundaries between his historical research, his fantasies, and Amelia's schemes all begin to blend together. Scattered throughout the novel are passages from Nicholas Dee's scholarly writing, chronicle of a seventeenth century Dutch opera-house, which was built in a coastal swamp on the advice of a fortune-teller and housed a single performance before being swept out to sea in a storm. The chronicle is intended by Dee to serve as a case study within his history of insurance. But by the end of the book, a personal narrative has emerged from Dee's impersonal history, the story of a man's friendship with a boy soprano. Interpenetrating and linking the inner text by Nicholas Dee and the outer one by Matthew Stadler are snatches of music - extracts
Briony Tallis, a 13-year-old English girl with a talent for writing, lives at her family's country estate with her parents. Her older sister Cecilia attends University of Cambridge with Robbie Turner, the son of the Tallis family housekeeper and a childhood friend of Cecilia's. In the summer of 1935, Briony's maternal cousins, twins Jackson and Pierrot and Lola, come to visit the family. On this day Briony witnesses a moment of sexual tension between Cecilia and Robbie from afar. Briony misconstrues the situation and thinks that Robbie is acting aggressively toward Cecilia. Robbie, meanwhile, realizes he is attracted to Cecilia, whom he has not seen in some time, and writes several drafts of a love letter to her, giving a copy to Briony to deliver. By accident he gives her a version he had meant to discard, which contains lewd and vulgar references ("cunt"). Briony reads the letter and becomes disturbed as to Robbie's intentions. Later she walks in on Robbie and Cecilia making love in the library. Briony misinterprets the sexual act as rape and believes Robbie to be a "maniac". Later on at a family dinner party attended by Briony's brother Leon and his friend Paul Marshall, it is discovered that the twins have run away and the dinner party breaks into teams to search for them. In the darkness, Briony discovers her cousin Lola, apparently being raped by an assailant she cannot clearly see. Lola is unable or unwilling to identify the attacker, but Briony decides to
The story describes the adventures of Maxim Kammerer. Kammerer is an amateur space explorer from Earth. This occupation is not considered serious and Kammerer is regarded as a failure by his friends and relatives. The novel starts when Kammerer accidentally discovers an unexplored planet Saraksh inhabited by a humanoid race. The level of technological development on the planet is similar to mid-20th century Earth. Recently, the planet had a nuclear and conventional war and the predicament of the population is dire. When Kammerer lands, the natives mistake his spaceship for a weapon and destroy it. At first, Kammerer does not take his situation seriously. He imagines himself a Robinson Crusoe stranded on an island inhabited by primitive but friendly natives. He is looking forward to establishing contact and befriending the population of the planet. However, the reality turns out to be far from glamorous. Kammerer finds himself in the capital of a totalitarian state, perpetually at war with its neighbors. The population is governed by the oligarchy of Unknown Fathers through brutal police and military repression. The city is grim and polluted. Ordinary populace leads the life of privation and misery. What goes on around Kammerer does not make sense to him, since his own society is free from war, crime and material shortages. Eventually, it is revealed that to maintain the loyalty of the population, the Fathers employ mind control broadcasts. The broadcast towers pepper the landscape of the country. The mind-altering capabilities of the towers are kept secret,
The disappearance of Dr. Larry Pettifer from his teaching position at Bath University shouldn't have concerned a great many people, especially a retired Treasury boffin like Tim Cranmer. But when Detective Inspector Bryant and Sergeant Luck of the Bath Police call upon Cranmer at his Somerset manor house and vineyard late on a Sunday evening, Cranmer finds himself facing repercussions from his secret and not-too-distant past. Pettifer, the reader eventually learns, was a British Secret Intelligence Service operative during the Cold War and Cranmer was his handler for some twenty years. The Cold War is over, the Berlin Wall has come down and SIS has put Cranmer and his agent Pettifer out to pasture. Pettifer turns to teaching at Bath University and Cranmer is content to settle at Honeybrook, his inherited estate in Somerset, growing wine and making love to his beautiful young mistress Emma. Not content with staying cloistered in Bath, Larry begins paying visits to Honeybrook and soon becomes a permanent fixture in their lives. At least, that is, until both Larry and Emma disappear. Panicked by his encounter with the Bath Police, Cranmer contacts his former employers and is summoned to London where he learns that, not only has Larry disappeared, he's absconded with some ₤37 million milked from the Russian Government with the help of a former Soviet spy. Cranmer finds himself suspected as Larry's accomplice by the Bath Police—and, later, by "The Office," or SIS—and decides to track down his protégé and his former mistress.
As the story unfolds, Phillip reflects on the major incidents in the life of his once well-to-do family, which was forced to leave Nashville during the time of the Great Depression after the older Mr. Carver, a distinguished lawyer, lost a great deal of money in failed investments with his then-friend and business associate Lewis Shackleford. Though this happened when the four Carver children were still in their teens, they recall the event as a great betrayal, and the resulting move had a major impact on them and continues to affect their abilities to build stable relationships and function as adults. Their lives were further dominated by their father as he ended romantic relationships for his children if he disapproved of them for any reason. Ultimately, the oldest Carver son would join the army and die in World War II. Neither Phillip nor his sisters ever marry. His sisters maintain an odd continued adolescence well into their fifties, dressing as though they were still attractive teenagers. Phillip moves to New York and lives with a younger woman whom he will never marry. The "summons" to Memphis in the book's title refers to several events, but chiefly a call by Phillip's sisters to return and help them block their then-octogenarian father from remarrying after the death of their mother. The book is a rumination on the responsibilities of parents, friendships between men, the relationship between the "old" and "new" south, the nature of revenge and the possibility of forgiveness.
Raeford Benton Lynch, nephew to the bald Jeeter, is a cipher, remarkable only for being gangly and horse-faced. On a whim, he accepts a job "digging holes" for Mr. Claude Ellwyn Overhill, who drives a motley assortment of riff-raff around the south, disinterring and relocating the denizens of graveyards that had to be moved to make room for development. Benton Lynch meets Jane Elizabeth Firesheets when he and Mr. Overhill's crew disinter her grandmomma. Jane Elizabeth, for some inscrutable reason, takes a fancy to Benton Lynch, beguiling him with her "milky white parts" and "plum colored parts." Trouble comes in the form of Jimmy, a petty criminal whose renegade nature lures Jane Elizabeth Firesheets away from Benton Lynch. In order to prove that he is as dangerous and ambitious—and thus as alluring—as Jimmy, Benton Lynch takes to holding up convenience stores and sending clippings about the crimes to Jane Elizabeth Firesheets. This wins her affections away from Jimmy, but has an unintended side effect: Jane Elizabeth Firesheets pictures herself as Bonnie to Benton Lynch's Clyde, and insists that the two take off on a crime spree that ends in the shooting of an elderly store clerk.
Shortly before noon on Saturday October 21 of an unspecified year after 2012 (evident by mention of a faded bumper sticker for Barack Obama's successful 2012 re-election campaign), the small Maine town of Chester's Mill is abruptly and gruesomely separated from the outside world by an invisible, semipermeable barrier of unknown origin. The immediate appearance of the barrier causes a number of injuries and fatalities, and traps former Army Captain Dale "Barbie" Barbara—who is trying to leave Chester's Mill—inside the town. Police Chief Howard "Duke" Perkins is soon killed when his pacemaker explodes after getting too close to the barrier. This removes the last significant opposition to James "Big Jim" Rennie, used car salesman and the town's Second Selectman. Big Jim exerts significant influence within Chester's Mill, and seizes the opportunity to use the barrier as part of a power play to take over the town. Big Jim appoints one of his cronies, the incompetent Peter Randolph, as the new Police Chief. He also begins expanding the ranks of the Chester's Mill Police with questionable candidates, including his son, Junior Rennie, and his friends. Junior has frequent migraines caused by an as-yet undiscovered brain tumor which has also begun affecting his mental state; unbeknownst to Big Jim, Junior was in the process of beating and strangling a girl to death when the barrier appeared, and has killed another girl by the time Rennie places him on the police force. Elsewhere in Chester's Mill, Julia Shumway, the editor of the local
An orphaned Celestina is adopted from a convent in the south of France when she is a young girl by Mrs. Willoughby—nothing is known of her parentage. Celestina is raised along with Mrs. Willoughby’s own children, Matilda and George. The children grow up happily. Mrs. Willoughby dies early in the novel, urging George to marry her brother’s (Lord Castlenorth) daughter, Miss Fitz-Hayman, so that the family estate can be saved from financial ruin. Matilda marries Mr. Molyneux, becoming ambitious and haughty. She begins to despise Celestina and refuses her company. Celestina becomes friends with a servant named Jessy and helps reunite her with her lover, Cathcart, who is George Willoughby’s steward. Willoughby and Celestina discover that they love each other and decide to marry, despite the monetary impediments. Vavasour, Willoughby’s friend, also becomes enamored of Celestina; he flees before the wedding. Unfortunately, on the evening before the marriage, Willoughby suddenly takes off and it is unclear whether he will ever return – Celestina is devastated. Celestina moves in with the Thorolds, the local rector and his family, after Willoughby abandons her. Their son, Montague, develops an ardent attachment for her and she decides to leave to escape his overtures. Believing that Willoughby will eventually marry Miss Fitz-Hayman, Vavasour becomes an importunate suitor of Celestina, along with Montague. She is harassed. Willoughby reveals in a letter that Lady Castlenorth suggested to him and Celestina and he are brother and sister and therefore cannot marry. He has therefore determined to go to
A relatively quiet evening at home in 1897 for the Emersons is disturbed by the appearance of Reggie Forthright and his grandfather, Viscount Blacktower. The two visitors have information about Blacktower's older son, Willoughby Forth, who disappeared fourteen years ago in the desert west of the Nile in the Sudan. They tell the story of a lost civilization in the midst of the desert. Lord Blacktower's story would have been discounted, except the map he produced was on the back of a page from Emerson's own notebook, drawn by Willie Forth himself. Blacktower wants the Emersons to lead an expedition to find the missing heir, but the Emersons decline. Surprisingly, Radcliffe, Amelia and Ramses do travel to the Sudan, to excavate at Gebel Barkal and Napata, the first Nubian capital. The sudden appearance of Reggie Forthright causes them to alter their plans. Reggie is set on seeking his long-lost uncle, and when he disappears in the western wastes, the Emersons have no recourse but to go after him. But the rescuers need rescue themselves when all but one of their men desert them, and their camels die off one by one. Finally, the last faithful servant takes a chance, and looks for a promised oasis ahead. Nearly dead from heat and thirst, they suddenly find themselves in a world 3,000 years out of place. Amelia suffers the worst of it, taking weeks to fully recover. She is spurred on because they find themselves in a place where ancient Egypt is
The play starts in the town square of a small, unnamed French village. Two friends; the eloquent, intellectual but incredibly prideful Jean and the simplistic, shy, kind-hearted drunkard Berenger; meet up in a coffee house to talk about an unspecified urgent matter. Instead of talking about what they were supposed to, Jean becomes furious at Berenger's tardiness and drunken state and berates him until a rhinoceros rampages across the square, considerably startling the people there. The people there begin to discuss what has happened when another rhinoceros appears and crushes a woman's cat. This generates incredible outrage and people begin to band together to argue that the presence of these rhinos should not be allowed. The beginning of a mass movement is seen onstage. Berenger arrives late for work at the local newspaper office, but the newspaper's receptionist Daisy (with whom Berenger is in love), covers for him. At the office, an argument has broken out between the sensitive and logical Dudard and the violent, temperamental Botard; since Botard does not believe a rhinoceros could actually appear in France despite all the claims by eyewitnesses that one did. Suddenly, Mrs. Bœuf (the wife of a fellow employee) appears to say that her husband has turned into a rhinoceros and that streets are plagued with people who have turned into them. Botard argues against the existence of the so called rhinoceritis movement that Mrs. Bœuf claims is occurring, saying that the local people are too intelligent to be tricked by the
The novel has just over 100 pages and consists of two parts. Part 1, titled "Natural death", describes the monotone and empty life of Patrice Mersault with his boring office job and a meaningless relationship with his girlfriend. Mersault gets to know the rich invalid Roland Zagreus (Zagreus is a character of Greek mythology) who shows Mersault a way out: "Only it takes time to be happy. A lot of time. Happiness, too, is a long patience. And in almost every case, we use up our lives making money, when we should be using our money to gain time." Mersault decides to kill Zagreus in order to create his happiness with the rich man's money. Part 2, titled "Conscious death", follows Mersault's subsequent trip to Europe. Traveling by train from city to city, he is unable to find peace and decides to return to Algiers, to live in a house high above the sea with three young female friends. Everybody here has only one goal: the pursuit of happiness. Yet Mersault needs solitude. He marries a pleasant woman he does not love, buys a house in a village by the sea, and moves in alone. "At this hour of night, his life seemed so remote to him, he was so solitary and indifferent to everything and to himself as well, that Mersault felt he had at last attained what he was seeking, that the peace which filled him now was born of that patient self-abandonment he had pursued and achieved
This bittersweet novel is as fresh and charming today as it was when originally published. Telling the story of Raman, a conscientious sign-painter, who is trying to lead a rational life, the novel is filled with busy neighborhood life and gossip, the alternating rhythms and sounds of the city from morning till night, and the pungent smells and tantalizing flavors of home cooking, as Narayan portrays everyday life in Malgudi. The city is growing and changing, as its inhabitants try to carve out some individual successes within the juggernaut of “progress.” Raman, a college graduate, brings a sense of professionalism to his sign-painting, taking pride in his calligraphy and trying to create exactly the right sign, artistically, for each client. Living with his aged aunt, a devout, traditional woman whose days are spent running the house and tending to her nephew’s needs and whose evenings are spent at the temple listening to the old stories and praying, Raman prefers a rational approach to life, avoiding the explanations of life’s mysteries which religion provides. As he begins to write his aunt’s biography, which she is dictating, with all its portents and interventions by deities, Raman asks, “How could the Age of Reason be established if people were like this?” For his own life, he believes that “ultimately he can evolve a scheme for doing without money,” and that he can “get away from sex thoughts,” which he believes are “too much everywhere.” Then he meets Daisy. A young woman devoted to
The book begins in fictional Landsdale County, Connecticut, where Jim and Muriel Blandings are being shown an old farmhouse by a real estate agent. Blandings, a successful New York advertising executive, and his wife want to leave their tiny Midtown apartment, where they live with their two daughters. They fantasize that the farmhouse will meet their needs. After some negotiation, they buy the house. They soon learn that the house is structurally unsound and must be torn down. They design the perfect home in the country, imagining an idyll, but they are quickly beset by construction troubles, temperamental workmen, skyrocketing bills, threatening lawyers, and difficult neighbors. The Blandings' dream house soon threatens to be the nightmare that undoes them. Hodgins wrote a sequel, Blandings Way, published in 1950. The short story and novel were based on the author Eric Hodgins's experience with buying property and building a house in the Merryall area of the Litchfield County, Connecticut, town of New Milford. His former house, which still stands, sold in August 2004 for $1.2 million.
Closer, Further (Part 1) The opening chapter describes how Chester Rawls is the first to regain consciousness on a fungal shelf deep down in the Pore where he, Will Burrows, Elliott and Bartleby have crash landed. After Will has located his brother’s dead body and given him a burial of sorts, he and Chester carry the injured Elliott with them as they set about exploring this alien and frightening world. The task of moving through the passages with the burden of Elliott and their equipment is made easier thanks to the reduced gravity at this depth in the Earth. With the help of Bartleby’s tracking ability, they discover that there is someone else down there with them, but are attacked by giant carnivorous creatures called spider-monkeys. They are saved by the intervention of a new character called Martha. She takes them to where she lives, a shack evidently built by the survivors of a galleon which was sucked down the another of the giant holes like the Pore, so she can tend to Elliott and protect the two boys. Meanwhile, the Rebecca twins, who were pushed into the Pore by Sarah Jerome in her last dying act, are aware that Will is alive, and begin to plot against him with two Styx Special Forces soldiers, called Limiters. One of the Rebeccas and a Limiter approach Will's father, Dr Burrows, and attempt to bully him into finding them a way out of the Pore. Dr Burrows seems to have very little
The novel's main character is Yuri Borodin, a young space welder. His mother was sick and Yuri missed the spaceship that was to transport him to his new work site. He gets a ride to his destination on a ship piloted by some of the characters of The Land of Crimson Clouds. When the novel starts Yurkovsky and Grisha Bykov - Bykov's son - and Dauge say goodbye to Bykov senior and leave on a mission from international spaceport Mirza-Charle. Meanwhile, Yuri Borodin is also in the spaceport, trying to find a ride. Spaceport authorities direct him to the port director, but he is currently out of town. Disappointed Yuri wanders into a Capitalist-run bar, where the owner-cum-bartender is engaged in an ideological debate with a Russian Communist. Yuri befriends the Russian, Ivan Zhilin, and tells him of his problems. Ivan suggests Yuri to go to the spaceport hotel in the evening, and try to convince the astronauts who stay there to take him along. Yuri does so and meets Bykov and Yurkovsky. Yurkovsky, currently serves as a Chief Inspector. He plans to make a tour of several planets and planetoids. Bykov is piloting his ship. They agree to give Yuri a ride. Their first stop is Mars. The Russian colonists there are battling an alien life form the giant slug. As the colonists are planning a large-scale slug hunt, they realize that some of the buildings in the area are not human-made. Since the buildings look so much like
The plot of King Kelson's Bride spans a period of two and a half months, from late June to mid-August 1128. The novel opens in Torenth, where Princess Morag Furstána, Duke Mahael II of Arjenol, and Count Teymuraz of Brustarkia discuss the marriage prospects of both King Liam Lajos II and King Kelson Haldane of Gwynedd. At the same time, the Camberian Council also discusses Kelson's potential brides while also worrying about Kelson's upcoming journey to Torenth. In Rhemuth, Kelson meets privately with Princess Rothana of Nur Hallaj after attending the wedding of his former squire. Despite professing his continuing love for her, Rothana once again refuses to marry the king. In her place, she urges Kelson to marry his cousin, Princess Araxie Haldane. In addition, she tells Kelson of the growing attraction between Prince Rory Haldane and Lady Noelie Ramsay. Although heartbroken by Rothana's refusal, Kelson agrees to consider her advice. Two days later, Kelson departs for Torenth. For the past four years, Kelson has held King Liam Lajos II of Torenth at his court in Rhemuth, both to protect the young king from his ambitious family and to teach him the art of statecraft. However, Liam has now reached his legal majority and must return to his own land to take up his throne. Kelson is accompanied by Duke Alaric Morgan of Corwyn, Duke Dhugal MacArdry McLain of Cassan, Bishop Denis Arilan of Dhassa, and Liam's uncle, Count Mátyás. The royal party stops briefly in Coroth, where Morgan's
It's a winter day in Dalton (a New England town near Boston) and Leonidas Witherall, "the man who looks like Shakespeare", is stepping off a bus after having been accused of bothering a beautiful young woman in a scarlet wimple (who promptly becomes known as the Scarlet Wimpernel). He takes refuge in a hardware store run by a former student, Lincoln Potter. Potter is inclined to be helpful, until the Wimpernel's purse is discovered in Witherall's pocket and Witherall is incautious enough to admit that he saw Potter's cash register being emptied by a man in a green satin suit carrying a small harp. He heads for the home of a former teaching colleague, Marcus Meredith, and finds him murdered -- and missing his artificial left leg. Potter is enlisted by Witherall for help in solving the murder, along with intrepid housewife Topsey Beaton. Together they deceive an entire rummage sale, enlist the Scarlet Wimpernel to play a role, find the man in green satin, locate the left leg, and solve the murder.
Two parents who are completely unprepared for parenthood bring home their newborn baby. The two cannot seem to name the baby. John thinks the baby is a boy, but Helen says the doctors said they could decide later. When the baby cries, the two cannot quite decide what to do. To their rescue comes Nanny – who enters their apartment as if by magic, and is full of abrupt shifts of mood, first cooing at the baby soothingly, then screaming at it. In subsequent scenes, John and Nanny have an affair, Helen takes baby and leaves, only to come back a moment later rain-soaked and unhappy. By the time the baby is a toddler, Daisy has finally been named. At this age Daisy has a penchant for running in front of buses and for lying, depressed, in piles of laundry. The audience hears an alarming essay Daisy has written in school, and the principal, the terrifying Miss Willoughby, is oblivious to the essay’s cry for help, and instead gleefully awards it an "A" for style. Years later, Daisy enters dressed as a girl, but obviously a young man. The audience follows his years of therapy, where he alternates between feelings of depression and anger, and is unable to complete his freshman essay on Gulliver’s Travels despite having been in college for five years. In a scene reminiscent of the beginning of the play, Daisy (who has since chosen a new name) and his young bride fondly regard their own baby,
Pompeii, A.D. 79. Athenian nobleman Glaucus arrives in the bustling and gaudy Roman town and quickly falls in love with the beautiful Greek Ione. Ione's former guardian, the malevolent Egyptian sorcerer Arabaces, has designs on Ione and sets out to destroy their budding happiness. Arabaces has already ruined Ione's sensitive brother Apaecides by luring him to join the vice-ridden priesthood of Isis. The blind slave Nydia is rescued from her abusive owners by Glaucus, for whom she secretly pines. Arabaces horrifies Ione by declaring his love for her, and flying into a rage when she refuses him. Glaucus and Apaecides rescue her from his grip, but Arabaces is struck down by an earthquake, a sign of Vesuvius's coming eruption. Glaucus and Ione exult in their love, much to Nydia's torment, while Apaecides finds a new religion in Christianity. Nydia unwittingly helps Julia, a rich young woman who has eyes for Glaucus, obtain a love potion from Arabaces to win Glaucus's love. But the love potion is really a poison that will turn Glaucus mad. Nydia steals the potion and administers it; Glaucus drinks only a small amount and begins raving wildly. Apaecides and Olinthus, an early Christian, determine to publicly reveal the deception of the cult of Isis. Arabaces, recovered from his wounds, overhears and stabs Apaecides to death; he then pins the crime on Glaucus, who has stumbled onto the scene. Arabaces has himself declared the legal guardian of Ione, who is convinced that Arabaces is her brother's murderer,
Anastasia Krupnik's little brother, Sam, wants fangs more than anything in the world. But there is one big problem. Sam's mother, Mrs. Krupnik, has fangphobia and forbids Sam even to touch his plastic vampire fangs in the house. How can she not see how cool fangs really are? Sure, they make it hard to eat hot dogs, but they make him look disgusting - and Sam loves to look disgusting. So Sam decides to run away to Alaska, where "fanged" walruses lie around in a pile and sharp teeth are generally accepted. He packs his mittens and bear in his father's Harvard University gym bag and sets off, but just down the block, Lowell Watson, the mailman, reminds him he will need food for Alaska. Neighbor Gertrude Stein's homemade chocolate chip cookies are just the thing. And how can he leave without saying goodbye to the Sheehans' baby, Kelly? He needs a glass of water, and there really isn't any reason to hurry to Alaska ... In See You Around, Sam!, Lois Lowry continues to give Anastasia's brother a voice of his own. As the quirky characters on his block welcome him into their homes one by one, he discovers the true meaning of community.
In the mid 1930s in Germany, things are changing, people are moving away or disappearing. The new headmaster at the Solden's school forbids the singing of a song titled "My thoughts are free" (Die Gedanken sind frei) during an assembly, instead making the school sing the national anthem. Anna's father, disturbed by the changes in his country, promises Anna that she will be able to grow up in a place where her thoughts are free. When his brother Karl in Canada dies, leaving him his shop and the home he had purchased there, Ernst sees an opportunity to move to Canada. He announces to his family that they will be moving to Canada. The rest of the family comes on board slowly, but Anna, terrified, resists. In Germany she is nearly failing school, how will she manage in a new country and a new language? When they arrive in Toronto, they are greeted by a friend of their uncle's, Dr Schumacher, who helps them move in, and gives them check-ups before they start school. Anna is terrified to learn she will be starting school soon, but during her examination, a startling discovery is made; Anna can barely see. A prescription for glasses helps immensely, however even with the glasses, she has less than normal vision, and is put in a special multi-grade class for students with similar vision. Her teacher here is Miss Williams. Seeing the potential in Anna she sets out to slowly coach the girl out of her
The plot centers on a case of mistaken identity between a pair of identical twins, which in his afterword Jin Yong acknowledges resemble some works of William Shakespeare (cf. Twelfth Night and The Comedy of Errors). The protagonist, who refers to himself as "Gouzazhong" (狗雜種; literally means "the mongrel dog", a colloquialism for "bastard"), first appears as a young beggar living on the streets of Kaifeng, searching for his lost mother. He witnesses a fight between several wulin pugilists and meets the Shi couple and members of the Snowy Mountain Sect (雪山派). An accident causes him to be taken away from Kaifeng by a martial artist called Xie Yanke, to Xie's secluded home on Motian Cliff. Xie Yanke, who is frequently bothered by Gouzazhong, decides to teach him martial arts. Gouzazhong learns qi cultivation techniques under Xie Yanke's tutelage for six years. Gouzazhong is unaware that Xie Yanke actually harbours ill intentions towards him and has been teaching him the wrong methods, in hope that Gouzazhong will sustain internal wounds and die eventually. At the same time, the leader of the Changle Sect, Shi Potian (whose real name is Shi Zhongyu), mysteriously disappears. The greater part of the novel deals with the complications that arise as Gouzhazhong is mistaken to be Shi Zhongyu, not only by members of the sect (for ulterior motives), by also by Shi Zhongyu's parents, the Shi couple, Shi Zhongyu's lover Ding Dang, and members of the Snowy Mountain Sect. Although the two bear a splitting
The story starts with the hero, Kirill, being "erased" from daily life in present-day Moscow. Everybody forgets him (even his parents and dog), another person lives in his apartment, all IDs and files in all offices disappear. After a while he is phoned and invited to an old water tower — but inside is his future home and working place. There it is revealed to him that he is able to open doors, leading to other worlds — although at first all but one are locked. Once opened each door becomes rigidly connected to some world, but which one can't be predicted. All of the worlds have mostly similar environments and seem to be on the planet Earth but the societies and people are different. After a while Kirill meets a special group of functionals, so called because they gained supernatural abilities making them excellent in some profession. They serve other people, but mostly other functionals. They say Kirill has become one of them — a customs officer. He benefits from taxes paid by people who pass through his tower. Also he has superhuman strength and is almost immortal, but only within 10&nbsp;km of his tower. Kirill enjoys these new worlds, people and abilities. A politician Dima meets him and asks to find a national idea for Russia. He informs Kirill about the world number One, which nobody can access and which seems to be exactly our world living 30 years later. Critical information from this world may enhance the
“Borderlands”, is a 1991 novel by British author, Peter Carter. The western oriented novel tells the story of young, and somewhat naïve, Ben Curtis, an orphan who lost both his mother and his brother at an early age. The story spans across several decades of the late 1880s and early 1900’s, as Ben learns the harsh brutal lessons of the Texas and the rise and fall of famous Kansas boomtowns like Abilene and Dodge City. The overall plot of the novel was broken into four sections, all of which tell crucial life changing events in Ben’s life. Throughout the novel, Ben is plagued by sudden, abrupt changes in his lifestyle, and even more sudden deaths as the wild west quickly changes into modern society of the 20th century. The novel begins in Texas, in the year 1871, in the fictional, rural, area of Clement County. Beauregard (Bo) Curtis, and his younger brother Benjamin (Ben), and their widowed mother are struggling to keep their farm afloat in the tough economic times of the late 1800’s. But during the summer of 1870, their mother dies, leaving the two brothers are left to take care of the family farm alone. Bo and Ben hope to receive help from their estranged sister Flo, but to dismay they discover Flo is now married, and has turned her back on their family, leaving them to suffer in poverty alone. However the brothers are soon discover that their poor mother owed money to the local preacher, Tyler,
Taking place mainly in our world (New York City and East Stoneham, Maine), this book picks up where Wolves of the Calla left off, with the ka-tet employing the help of the Manni to open the magic door inside Doorway Cave. The ka-tet are split up by the magic door, or perhaps ka, and sent to different 'wheres' and 'whens' in order to accomplish several essential goals pertaining to their quest towards the mysterious Dark Tower. Susannah Dean is partially trapped in her own mind by Mia, the former demon and now very-pregnant mortal woman who had taken control of her body shortly after the final battle in Wolves of the Calla. Susannah and Mia, with their shared body mostly under the control of Mia, escape to New York of 1999 via the magic door in Doorway Cave with the help of Black Thirteen. Mia tells Susannah she has made a Faustian deal with the Man in Black, also known as Walter, to surrender her demonic immortality in exchange for being able to produce a child. Technically speaking, however, this child is the biological descendant of Susannah Dean and the gunslinger, Roland. The Gunslinger's 'seed' was passed to Susannah through an Elemental who had sex with both. The technical parentage of her child matters little to Mia, though, because The Crimson King has further promised her that she will have sole charge of raising the child, Mordred, for the first part of his life - the time before the critical
This romance novel is set in the period of World War II at a military hospital during nightly blackouts and bomb raids. The story's young male protagonist, Laurie Odell, is a wounded soldier from the Dunkirk evacuation (Renault herself worked as a nurse treating Dunkirk evacuees during the war), who must decide if his affections lie with a conscientious objector or a naval officer. The conscientious objector, a Quaker, has not come to terms with his own homosexuality, whereas the naval officer, a friend of Laurie's from school, is sexually experienced and established in the homosexual subculture of the British military. Laurie's confused romantic feelings for the two very different young men are compounded by his own discomfort with the gay lifestyle (dramatized in an extended scene at a gay party, regarded by some critics as a literary tour de force). Through this conflict, Renault explored her own ambivalence about whether homosexuals truly constituted what would come to be seen as a gay and lesbian community. She also explored a religious theme, contrasting the pacifist Christianity of the young conscientious objector with the "exalted paganism" (as one character describes it) of ancient Greece. The novel derives its title from the Chariot Allegory employed by Plato in his dialogue Phaedrus; Renault also alludes to Plato's Symposium, in which a character philosophizes about an army composed of male lovers. The story's wartime setting is crucial to the ethical issues the novel explores. In a sense, The Charioteer is a warm-up for Renault's
Robin is on his way to meet his friends Marian, a noblewoman, and Much, the miller's son, at the Nottingham Fair. Robin serves as a king's forester in Sherwood forest and fletches arrows to make enough income to keep his holding. Robin is just a mediocre archer - his father Robert was much better, and Robin feels he doesn't live up to his father's legacy. On his way, Robin is accosted by some of the other foresters. An archery contest ensues between Robin and one of the foresters, Tom Moody, and Robin miraculously wins. As he is walking away, one of the foresters shoots an arrow at Robin that nearly kills him. Without thinking, Robin shoots at arrow at Tom Moody's leg, but it instead hits his heart and kills him. Robin runs away and hides in the forest until Much and Marian find him. Much hides Robin in his father's barn at the mill, and Marian steals Robin's father's longbow for him from Robin's house. Much thinks that Robin should hide in Sherwood Forest and gather a band of men with him as an idealistic resistance to the tyrannous sheriff of Nottingham. Robin disagrees, not wanting to put others in danger, but is overruled when Much begins to hold meetings in his house with other disgruntled members of the community. Robin finds a place in the woods, which later earns the name Greentree, for the outlaws’ camp. Marian assists the effort by procuring green fabric for clothing. The band
One day in 1917 an aging philosophy tutor, nicknamed Cripure, feels unable to give advice to a student who is departing for the front in World War I. Amidst the horror of the war, he feels increasing disgust at life. He remembers how, years ago, he lost his wife. He is now living alone, supported only by Maia, his lazy housekeeper. His youthful promise as a writer and thinker has long since evaporated, and his body is becoming disturbingly abnormal as his feet become excessively large due to an illness. He hates himself, his colleagues and his students. He takes a class at which the students play up. In the afternoon he consoles himself with drink. As the evening wears on he learns about disasters and local tragedies, deaths, robberies and betrayals which convince him of the irredeemable corruption of humanity. French soldiers are becoming mutinous as the war continues without hope of an end. Cripure becomes involved in an altercation at the railway station as disaffected soldiers riot. He hits a jingoistic "patriot" and is challenged to a duel, which he accepts. Convinced that he will be killed, he writes a will. To his surprise local people rally round to support him, including his housekeeper and old friends. Cripure's challenger is discovered to be a hypocrite and is forced to back off. Saved from death, Cripure is more disturbed by the new evidence of human solidarity than he was by the consolation of despair. Unable to imagine a new
Dictation Approximately 15,000 Words. This story is about the secretaries of Henry James and Joseph Conrad. The two women have a brief lesbian affair, and hatch a scheme to switch a paragraph form each of their bosses new works. Actors Approximately 8,000 words, originally published in The New Yorker, and later in “Cynthia Ozick Collected Stories.” This story is about a post-middle-aged Jewish actor with an Irish-sounding stage name who has just landed the role of King Lear in an off-Broadway play written by the daughter of a famous Yiddish actor. At Fumicaro Approximately 11,000 words, originally published in The New Yorker and later in “Cynthia Ozick Collected Stories.” This story is about an American from New York who goes to Fumicaro, Italy for a conference on Catholicism. He meets a young, Italian chambermaid who is pregnant out of wedlock and decides to marry her and take her back home to America. The story takes place in the 1930s after Benito Mussolini has taken over. The characters in the story portray an eerie ambivalence to the idea of fascism. What Happened to the Baby Approximately 10,000 words, published in The Atlantic and “Cynthia Ozick Collected Stories.” This story is about an elderly man who is in the middle of a life long ambition to create a new universal language called “GNU”, and his niece Vivian who has been charged by her mother to take care of him after his wife divorced him.
Once a learned man from the northern regions of Europe went on a voyage south. One night, he sat on his terrace, while the fire behind him cast his shadow on the opposite balcony. As he was sitting there, resting, the man was amused to observe how the shadow followed his every movement, as if he really did sit upon the opposing balcony. When he finally grew tired and went to sleep, he imagined the shadow would likewise retire in the house across the street. The next morning however, the man found to his surprise that he in fact had lost his shadow overnight. As a new shadow slowly grew back from the tip of his toes, the man did not give the incident another thought, returned to northern Europe, and took up writing again. Several years passed by until one night there was a knock at his door. To his surprise, it was his shadow, the one he lost years before in Africa, and now stood upon his doorstep, almost completely human in appearance. Astonished by his sudden reappearance, the learned man invited him into his house, and soon the two sat by the fireplace, as the shadow related how he had come to be man. The learned man was calm and gentle by nature. His main object of interest lay with the good, the beautiful and the true, a subject of which he wrote often but was of no interest to anyone else. The shadow said his master
In the opening scene, Sparrow cannot recall what took place in the preceding 36 hours. Awakening yet again in a novel place with new hurts, the urge to fix the problem is intense. On the way to enlightenment comes a cryptic Tarot reading from friend Sherrea, abduction by a dead man animated by what might as well be a Loa, and introduction to a Vodun-based community that is dedicated to replacement, and if necessary to overthrow, of the status quo in the city. The latter has the individual most responsible for the inter-continental war near its power apex, a character who is also the revenge target of another survivor from his kind. Those are the "Horsemen," modified people who can move their consciousness from body to body, much like the central figure in Mind of my Mind by Octavia Butler. The second half of the story shows Sparrow's awkward progress toward a fully human condition and becoming a valued member of a community, and is capped by a closing conceit: that the whole telling has been an autobiography.
It is 1345 AD, and in the English town of Ansby (in northeastern Lincolnshire), Sir Roger, Baron de Tourneville, is recruiting a military force to assist King Edward III in the Hundred Years' War against France. Suddenly, an enormous silver spacecraft lands outside the town. It is a scouting craft for the Wersgorix Empire, a brutal dominion light years from our solar system. The Wersgorix attempt to take over Earth by testing the feasibility of its colonization. However, the aliens, having forgotten hand-to-hand combat since it was made obsolete by their advanced technology, are caught off-guard by the angered Englishmen, who mistake the craft for a French trick. The villagers and soldiers in Ansby storm the craft and kill all but one Wersgor, Branithar. Sir Roger formulates a plan that with the captured ship, he can take the entire village to France to win the war, and then liberate the Holy Land. The townspeople, with all of their belongings, board the ship at the baron's instruction, and prepare to take off. The people of Ansby are mystified at the advanced technology aboard the ship, which they come to call the Crusader. Being unable to pilot the Crusader Sir Roger directs the surly Branithar to pilot them to France. Instead, the alien wrecks the baron's plan by throwing the Crusader into autopilot on course to Tharixan, another Wersgor colony. The Crusader arrives at Tharixan in days, and Sir Roger learns of this new world: it is sparsely-populated, with only three fortresses,
The protagonist, Ned Henry, is a specialist in 20th century history, assigned to search for the Bishop's bird stump. He has made so many jumps into the 1940s so quickly that he has developed "time-lag", the time-travel-induced form of jet lag, and must recuperate before he returns to work. There is, unfortunately, an emergency in progress. A historian sent to the Victorian era has returned bringing something from Victorian England with her which the historians believe may rip time itself apart if it isn't promptly returned...and Ned, who knows virtually nothing about the 19th century, is the only one available to return it. (Theoretically, nothing may be brought through the time machine in either direction as it might cause time to unravel, and safeguards have been put in place in order to prevent significant objects making the journey.) Unfortunately, Ned is too time-lagged to recall his destination, much less remember what it is that he is supposed to return. He meets one Terence St. Trewes, a besotted young Oxford undergraduate, and lends him the money to hire a boat for a trip on the River Thames from Oxford down to Muchings End, where Terence hopes to meet his love, Tocelyn "Tossie" Mering. Ned, Terence, Cyril the bulldog and an Oxford don, Professor Peddick, travel down the Thames, navigating locks, beautiful scenery, crowds of languid boaters in no hurry to get anywhere, and the party of one Jerome K. Jerome (to say nothing of the dog, Montmorency). Fortunately, Ned's contact in
Captain Jonathan Archer and the crew of the Starship Enterprise find their way forward blocked by a mysterious alien vessel, piloted by a race they will soon come to know as the Antianna. Unable to decipher the alien ship's transmissions, unwilling to risk a battle, Enterprise is forced to veer from its planned course. Almost immediately, they find themselves in the heart of space ruled by the Thelasian Trading Confederacy, who have also had dealings with the Antianna. The Thelasian leader, Governor Maxim Sen, is in fact in the middle of organising a war against the Antianna, to eliminate the threat they pose to the Confederacy's trading routes. Archer suspects Sen has other motives as well. He also suspects that there is a reason for the Antianna's seemingly hostile posture. But, with the assembled races of an entire sector against him, he needs more than just suspicions. He needs facts. And, only one woman can give them to him: Ensign Hoshi Sato. If she can translate the Antianna language, peace may just be possible. If not, war - a devastating sector-wide war - will soon result.
In a tense, hypothetical 1990s apartheid South Africa, the ruling National Party and its new state president prepare to end decades of racial injustice and conflict by entering into negotiations with African National Congress officials for sweeping democratic reforms. However, beneath the surface progress has been slow, with the Soviet Union and its rivals in the West attempting to play both sides and internal pressure mounting. The ANC refuses to properly disarm and cease planning terrorist operations, while for their part even white moderates refuse to permit a total system of "one man, one vote". To complicate matters, South African commandos conducting a clandestine raid into Zimbabwe uncover a conspiracy by ANC guerrilla fighters to assassinate the reformist government. After learning of the plot, Afrikaner Resistance Movement fanatic and Minister for Internal Security Karl Vorster seeks to manipulate the situation for his personal gain, allowing the plan to proceed despite advance knowledge of its details. Hardline elements of the regime, led by its staunchest supporters of apartheid, intend to let the ANC terrorists murder their political opponents, leaving the field clear for them to seize power. With most of South Africa's moderate cabinet dead, Vorster becomes president and declares martial law. The security forces begin brutal crackdowns on anti-apartheid organizations, and those suspected of having ties to ANC affiliates are executed or moved to isolated internment camps. Suppression, torture, and state-sponsored killings became commonplace, while the South African Defence Force is ordered to invade newly independent South West Africa (Namibia)
A young boy called Michael,travels with his parents around the world on the yacht Peggy Sue after his parents lose their jobs at the brickworks and decide to sail the seven seas. Michael's parents teach him what he would have normally learnt at school and he has a secret log that he writes in. They travel from England to Africa, South America and Australia. He is on lookout one night when Michael and his dog Stella Artois are washed overboard, near Papua New Guinea. They awake to discover that they are stranded on a desert island that is shaped like an elongated peanut in the Pacific Ocean. While Michael is struggling to survive on the island, food is regularly left for him. To his surprise, he learns that an elderly Japanese man called Kensuke is also living on the island. Kensuke helps Michael to survive. He sets guidelines that Michael thinks are just annoyances, until Kensuke saves him from a jellyfish after warning him never to go in the water. Michael teaches Kensuke English, and Kensuke teaches Michael how to paint, how to fish and where to find the best food and water. He is eventually revealed to be a doctor and survivor of World War II, and he believes that his family died in Nagasaki after the atomic bomb was dropped there on August 9, 1945. Over time Kensuke begins to understand how Michael feels and how he misses his family. Together they build a beacon that can be
Next to a church in a prosperous Scottish industrial town is the "Garden of Eden", a dance hall of dubious reputation. The "Garden of Eden" is a thorn in the side of the innocent and unworldly Catholic priest Father Malachy, who is praying to God that He will close the dance hall. During an argument with a Protestant minister, Father Malachy claims that God could miraculously remove the "Garden of Eden". The skeptical Protestant scoffs and Father Malachy inadvertently predicts that God will indeed remove the "Garden of Eden" on a specific date. The date comes and the building and all the people inside vanish and reappear on Bass Rock, a small island in the Firth of Forth. This apparent miracle draws the attention of the media, politicians and scientists, all trying to find rational explanations. The Catholic Church is reluctant to officially recognize this occurrence as a miracle, fearing either a loss of control in matters of faith, or a loss of face if the disappearance of the "Garden of Eden" should turn out to be a hoax or fabrication. Meanwhile, believers from all over the world come on pilgrimage to the former location of the dance hall. Soon the site becomes a fairground, with the town’s people, entrepreneurs and journalists trying to make a profit from the miracle and the resulting sudden influx of pilgrims. This includes the sale of holy water and miniature models of the "Garden of Eden". A young woman, who was in the dance
Romelio is a prominent merchant of Naples. He is fortunate, never having lost a vessel to shipwreck. He is rich; he mocks another merchant who has reached the age of 60 and amassed a fortune of only 50 thousand ducats. And he is arrogant: another character condemns his "insolent vainglory." Romelio directs some of his arrogance toward Contarino, the young nobleman, indebted to the merchant, who hopes to marry Romelio's sister Jolenta. For Romelio, Contarino is just another wastrel aristocrat who hopes to repair his decayed fortunes by marrying into the wealthy merchant class. Romelio instead is trying to arrange a marriage between Jolenta and Ercole, a Spanish noble who commands a fleet against the Ottoman Turks. (Spain ruled Naples and southern Italy during the Renaissance.) Jolenta, however, loves Contarino, and resists having her fate bartered away. Contarino tries to advance his cause by appealing to Leonora, the mother of Romelio and Jolenta, flattering her by requesting her portrait. Leonora remains a supporter of Ercole's suit &mdash; but she becomes interested in Contarino herself. When Jolenta remains resistant, Romelio sets the servant Winifred to watch over her and keep her from contacting Contarino. Winifred, however, is sympathetic to the girl, and does just the opposite; in conversation with his intended bride, Contarino learns of Ercole's pursuit of her. The play's subplot introduces Crispiano, a Spanish judge who has assumed a disguise to spy upon his scapegrace son Julio (a plot device that occurs in a number of English Renaissance plays).
The book begins with the details of how Berkman came to be imprisoned: as an anarchist activist, he had attempted to assassinate wealthy industrialist Henry Clay Frick, manager of the Carnegie steel works in Pennsylvania. Frick had been responsible for crushing the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers in the infamous Homestead strike, in which about 10 men were killed. However, although Berkman shot Frick three times and stabbed him several times in the leg with a poisoned knife, Frick survived, and Berkman was sentenced to 22 years in prison. Berkman had hoped to awaken the consciousness of the oppressed American people &mdash; an attentat &mdash; but, as the book goes on to detail, America lacked the political culture to interpret his actions. Even fellow prisoners from the union he was defending failed to see his political intent. The bulk of the book is set during Berkman's years in prison. Written in first person, present tense, English (his second language), it reads like a diary, though it was in fact written after Berkman's release. It is a coming-of-age story that tracks Berkman's difficult loss of his youthful sentimental idealism as he struggles with the physical and psychological conditions of prison life, at times bringing him to the verge of suicide. As he gets to know the other prisoners, he has nothing but disdain and disgust for them as people, though he sees them as victims of an unjust system. "They are not of my world," he writes. "I would
Despite the sacrifice of a T-850 and the heroic efforts of John Connor and Kate Brewster, Skynet became operational. It is now 2029 AD, and the war between the human Resistance and Skynet rages on. With small guerrilla forces, John and Kate continue to sabotage and destroy Skynet forces . . . but it's not enough. Before Judgment Day, Danny Avila helped program what became Skynet and was plagued by nightmares of Terminators destroying cities and decimating mankind. He disappeared two days before Judgment Day, and didn't resurface until Kate and John discovered him years later. Danny still can't remember what happened to him just before Skynet attacked. He has the nagging feeling that he has forgotten something very important. Despite this memory lapse, he has become a vital member of the Resistance. Horrible dreams have begun to haunt him again. Could these dreams be a psychic link to his past self? John Connor has an idea: if Danny past and Danny present can communicate, perhaps they can help the Resistance gain an edge and defeat Skynet. But to accomplish such a connection would place Danny at tremendous physical and emotional risk. It's a dangerous experiment, but one that might prove the salvation of mankind's future... and the death of Danny.
The son of a Russian immigrant, protagonist Leonard (Lenny) Abramov, a middle-aged, middle class, and otherwise unremarkable man whose mentality is still in the past century, falls madly in love with Eunice Park, a young Korean-American struggling with materialism and the pressures of her traditional Korean family. The chapters alternate between profuse diary entries from the old fashioned Lenny and Eunice's biting e-mail correspondence on her "GlobalTeens" account. In the background of what appears to be a love story that oscillates between superficiality and despair, a grim political situation unravels. America is on the brink of economic collapse, threatened by their Chinese creditors. In the meantime, the totalitarian Bipartisan government's main mission is to encourage and promote consumerism while eliminating political dissidents. In the midst of all this, in a world where anyone's sexuality can be rated at the touch of the screen, where the privileged can live forever but the unfortunate die too soon, there is still value to being a real human being.
Four days after a Weiberfastnacht party, where Katharina met a man named Ludwig Götten, she calls on Oberkommissar Moeding and confesses to killing a journalist for the newspaper Die Zeitung. Katharina had met Götten at a friend's party and spent the night with him before helping him to escape from the police. The next morning, the police broke into her house, arrested her and questioned her. The story is sensationally covered by Die Zeitung, and in particular its journalist Tötges. Tötges investigates everything about her life, calling on Katharina's friends and family, including her ex-husband and hospitalized mother, who dies the day after Tötges visits her. He paints a picture of Katharina as a fervent accomplice of Götten, and as a communist run amok in Germany. Katharina arranges an interview with Tötges. According to Katharina, upon his arrival he suggests that they have sex, whereupon she shoots him dead. She then wanders the city for a few hours before driving to police headquarters and confessing to Moeding. The book also details the effects of the case on Katharina's employers and friends the Blornas; Mr Blorna is her lawyer, and Mrs Blorna one of the designers of the apartment block where Katharina resides. Their association with Katharina leads to their exclusion from society.
The narrator returns after a brief visit a few summers prior, to the small coastal town of Dunnet, Maine, in order to finish writing her book. Upon arriving she settles in with Mrs. Todd, a local elderly apothecary or herbalist. The narrator begins to work for Mrs. Todd when Mrs. Todd goes out, but this distracts the narrator from her writing. She rents an empty schoolhouse, so she can concentrate on her writing. After a funeral, Captain Littlepage, an 80-year-old retired sailor, comes to the schoolhouse to visit the narrator because he knows Mrs. Todd. He tells a story about his time on the sea and she is noticeably bored so he begins to leave. She sees that she has offended him with her display of boredom, so she covers her tracks by asking him to tell her more of his story. The Captain's story cannot compare to the stories that Mrs. Todd, Mrs. Todd's brother and mother, and residents of Dunnet tell of their lives in Dunnet. The narrator's friendship with Mrs. Todd strengthens over the course of the summer, and the narrator's appreciation of the Maine coastal town increases each day.
A lonely boy grows up just outside Brighton in a caravan park with his over-sexual mother and the tenant Mr Broadhurst who takes the boy on a disturbing and often violent journey. The novel works as a strange Bildungsroman, in which the main character - Ian Wharton learns the art of black magic from his benafactor Mr. Broadhurst who is also known as The Fat Controller. At The Fat Controller's behest Ian engages in a series of strange acts including time travel and trips to an alternate reality - the Land of Children's jokes: a grotesque alternate universe inhabited by the menacing and deformed characters from jokes. The protagonist's education culminates in bizarre rites of bestiality and necrophilia. However he finds that in exchange for knowledge of the black arts Mr. Broadhurst begins to take over more and more aspects of the protagonist's life. The novel could also be seen as an example of an unreliable narrator as it is unclear whether the strange events in the novel are meant to be real or hallucinatory.
Widower Ephraim Cabot abandons his New England farm to his three sons, who hate him but share his greed. Eben, the youngest and brightest sibling, feels the farm is his birthright, as it originally belonged to his mother. He buys out his half-brothers' shares of the farm with money stolen from his father, and Peter and Simeon head off to California to seek their fortune. Later, Ephraim returns with a new wife, the beautiful and headstrong Abbie, who enters into an adulterous affair with Eben. Soon after, Abbie bears Eben's child, but lets Ephraim believe that the child is his, in the hopes of securing her future with the farm. The proud Ephraim is oblivious as his neighbors openly mock him as a cuckold. Madly in love with Eben and fearful it would become an obstacle to their relationship, Abbie kills the infant. An enraged and distraught Eben turns Abbie over to the sheriff, but not before admitting to himself the depths of his love for her and thus confessing his own role in the infanticide.
Camilla is facing significant problems at home. Her mother, Rose, has begun an affair with a man named Jacques. Her mother begs Camilla to keep it a secret, while Camilla's father, Rafferty, asks her to be honest and tell him the truth. Camilla is torn between her loyalty to both parents and begins to realize they are very imperfect people. To cope with the struggle, Camilla befriends Frank, her best friend's older brother. He is understanding of her problems and assists her in accepting her parents flaws. Frank encourages Camilla to define herself not by her family but to define herself as who she truly is. The pair share ideas on life, religion and philosophy and begin to form a romantic attachment. Their happiness is cut short when their families problems get worse. Frank's parents break up and he is forced to suddenly move away with his father. Camilla's parents decide to work on their marriage and go on a European Vacation together. Unfortunately, while her parents are traveling, Camilla is going to be sent to a Swiss boarding school. While Camilla is heartbroken by the loss of Frank, she uses the inner strength she has gained in the past weeks to deal with the changes in her life.
From Dahomey to the slave state of Mississippi, Flashman has cause to regret a game of pontoon with Benjamin Disraeli and Lord George Bentinck. From his ambition for a seat in the House of Commons, he has to settle instead for a role in the West African slave trade, under the command of Captain John Charity Spring, a Latin-spouting madman. Captured by the United States Navy, Flashman has to talk his way out of prison by assuming the first of his many false identities in America. After a visit to Washington D.C. and an unsettling meeting with Abraham Lincoln (still a junior congressman at the time), he escapes his Navy protectors in New Orleans and holes up at a whorehouse run by an amorous madame, Susie Willinck. He is again taken into custody, this time by members of the Underground Railroad. Traveling up the Mississippi River with a fugitive slave ends badly once again, and the rest of the story has Flashman as a slave driver on a plantation, a potential slave himself, and a slave stealer fleeing from vigilantes. Eventually he ends up back in New Orleans at the mercy of Spring. This story is continued in Flashman and the Redskins. At the end of the novel, the editor (Fraser) claims that the escape of Cassy and Flashman across the Ohio River was the inspiration for the anti-slavery novel, Uncle Tom's Cabin, with the names altered and the story focusing on the slave Cassy rather than Flashman. This is
The plot centers on Nina Leeds, the daughter of an Ivy League professor, who is devastated when her adored fiancé is killed in World War I, before they have a chance to consummate their passion. Ignoring the unconditional love of the novelist Charles Marsden, Nina embarks on a series of sordid affairs before determining to marry an amiable fool, Sam Evans. While Nina is pregnant with Sam's child, she learns a horrifying secret known only to Sam's mother: insanity runs in the Evans family and could be inherited by any child of Sam's. Realizing that a child is essential to her own and to Sam's happiness, Nina decides on a "scientific" solution. She will abort Sam's child and conceive a child with the physician Ned Darrell, letting Sam believe that it is his. The plan backfires when Nina and Ned's intimacy leads to their falling passionately in love. Twenty years later, Sam's "son" Gordon Evans is approaching manhood, with only Nina and Ned aware of the boy's true parentage. The meaning of the title is suggested by the aging Nina in a speech near the end of the play: "Our lives are strange dark interludes in the electrical display of God the Father!"
Guadalupe "Lupe" Guardado is a middle-aged Salvadoran woman who lives near Chalatenango, El Salvador. During the day she is required to do what she can to support her family, while her husband works for a wealthy landowner. Her husband José has become involved in rebellion against the economic conditions and became a leader in the Christian farmers organization. Fearing persecution for his opposition, José regularly stays "in the hills" after work and sees his family little. The Guardado's son Justino was killed by the "authorities" prior to the events in the novel, and their son-in-law Helio has "disappeared." Guadalupe's granddaughter Adolfina relays the protest at a cathedral, as well as a massacre of students on a bus. At the end of the novel, the authorities bring a beaten man to Guadalupe and Adolfina who had said the name "Adolfina" after being severely beaten. Adolfina does not recognize the man, but Guadalupe recognizes her husband José. On his previous advice, she denies knowing him, and he is taken away.
Jesus is crucified on Mount Golgotha. To the side of the crowd stands Barabbas. Being a violent man, a brigand and a rebel, he cannot muster much respect for the resignation of the man who died in his place. He is skeptical about the holiness of Jesus too. Yet, he is also fascinated by the sacrifice and he seeks out the different followers of Jesus trying to understand, but finds that their exalted views of Jesus do not match his down to earth observation of the man. More importantly, since Barabbas had not ever been the recipient of love (the cornerstone of the Christian faith), he finds that he is unable to understand love and hence Barabbas is unable to understand the Christian faith. Barabbas says that he "Wants to believe," but for Barabbas, understanding is a prerequisite for belief, so he is unable. After many trials and tribulations he ends up in Rome where he mistakes the Great Fire of Rome as the start of the new Kingdom of Heaven and enthusiastically helps spread the conflagration. Consequently, he is arrested and crucified along with other Christians as a martyr for a faith he does not understand.
Jacob Ericson is a shy, enigmatic, and somewhat inept ranch hand who works for crotchety Professor Carter and his crippled daughter Sharon, on a ranch in the California Mojave Desert in the 1920s. One day he learns that his hands possess the mysterious gift of healing, a gift he uses to cure animals, which he adores. Sharon, whom he also adores, then persuades him to heal her. When he successfully cures her, his gift is quickly exploited and the boundaries of his charm and naivete begin to stretch. First he offers his healing powers for free at a church in Los Angeles, where he has gone in pursuit of Sharon after she fled her father and the ranch to follow her dreams of stardom. Jacob and Sharon cross paths when they work for the same pair of exploitative showmen. Jacob stays with the seedy stage show only because Sharon is close by. It is when Jacob's gift is recruited to heal Earl Medwin, an eccentric, ailing young millionaire, that the love and security for which he has worked so hard begin to evaporate.
It starts as a normal day on a subway, but the normality is interrupted by the hijacking of a subway train, on the number 6 train. Four men armed with submachine guns detach the lead car of the train and take it and 17 hostages into a tunnel. The hijackers are lead by Ryder, a former mercenary; Longman, a disgruntled former motorman; Welcome, a violent former Mafia thug; and Steever, a powerful, laconic brute. They threaten to execute the hostages unless the city pays one million dollars in ransom. While the city rushes to comply, transit police try to puzzle out the hijackers' plan. They don't realize that Longman has figured out how to bypass the "dead-man's switch", allowing the car to speed along the track by itself (with the police chasing it while driving on surface streets) while the hijackers escape through an emergency exit. As they prepare to leave, however, Ryder and Welcome begin to argue, ending with Ryder fatally shooting Welcome. The delay allows one of the passengers, an undercover police officer who jumped off the train as it started to speed away, to shoot Steever. Longman escapes while Ryder shoots the passenger. As Ryder is about to administer a fatal head shot, he is himself shot dead by DCI Daniels of Special Operations Division. The novel ends with Longman's arrest.
An expedition is planned by Commander Adams across the Arctic. While in the Arctic, a storm wreaks havoc in the expedition. Most of the equipment including the radio is damaged. The team is finally able to find a base to stay with limited supplies. Storm, snow, ice, subzero temperatures all make living difficult. The team has to winter in the base with limited supplies. The winter is one long night that is 6 months long. Rescuers were not able to reach them because of ice formed in the sea during winter. Since the team lost contact everybody in mainland believes them to be dead because nobody will be able to survive a winter in the Arctic unsheltered. The team manages to survive because they were able to find a shelter, however they are half starved and health and sanity is on the fall. The team strongly believes Tom Fife will come with a search party to rescue them, however this is next to impossible for Tom Fife because everybody believes that all the team are dead. He is the only one who hopes to find them alive. He has to undertake tremendous personal strain, including losing his job, to force people to undertake the rescue mission. There is only a small window to do this rescue, as the ice will solidify making rescue impossible after summer. The team will not be able to survive another winter in the Arctic.
Martin, the main character, is supposed to be writing a book. He finds himself invited to dinner at the house of a repellent and warring couple, on whom the land and property they own seems entirely wasted. Martin happens on a painting which he takes to be by Brueghel. Painstaking research leads him (via a full scale reassessment of the interpretation of the five surviving pictures in Brueghel's The Months) to identify the picture as the missing sixth picture of Brueghel's famous book of hours. Meantime his wife, (an actual art historian whereas he is only peripherally connected with the scholarly art world), and their baby live in a cottage and he fears his wife eyes him with increasing disdain as, instead of working on his book, he pursues the Breughel data. Martin has to fake the promise of an affair with the woman of the house to get hold of the picture, and indulge in a series of implausible transactions in other pictures to keep his access to the Brueghel open. Once he gets it, his troubles have only begun. Finally, as he is about to succeed in taking it to a safe place and secure his fortune, he crashes the old Landrover and the picture goes up in smoke. You never do find out whether it was actually a Breughel or not.
As the series progresses, it becomes clear to Nantucket's government that sitting back and adopting isolationism will only profit those renegades who, under the leadership of ex-Coast Guard lieutenant William Walker (inspired directly by William Walker), have fled the island to exploit the Bronze Age peoples of Europe and the Middle East. Walker—who, unfortunately, is as smart as he is callous—exploits the "magic" of gunpowder, iron-forging, and the spinning jenny to build up an empire of his own, one that threatens to conquer the entire world unless the people of Nantucket build an army, a navy, and a web of foreign alliances to take the fight to Walker. Against the Tide of Years takes place approximately 10 years after the events of the first book. The leadership of the Republic of Nantucket has invested a great deal of time and effort into building up a substantial military force, both a deep-water navy and a Marine Corps, but the bulk of Nantucket's population are more interested in commerce and exploration than in bringing the renegade Walker to justice. A sneak attack on Nantucket itself by the nation of Tartessos, led by an ally of Walker, unites the factions of the Republic behind an all-out effort to topple Walker's growing empire, centered in Achaea (Greece), in a two-pronged campaign, attacking Tartessos and opening a second front in the Middle East (through an alliance with Babylon, Hittite Empire and Mitanni).
The novel explores the life and love story of the female protagonist named Ninay, a heartbroken young woman who died of cholera. Her heartbreak was due to her separation from her lover Carlos Mabagsic. Ninay's misfortune became harder to bear because of the loss of her parents. A pasiam, the novena for the dead, was being said and offered for the lifeless Ninay. Framed with this melancholic atmosphere of nine-day prayer for the departed, the novel opens up a succession of narratives that present "variations of unrequited love". The first condemned relationship was between Ninay and her lover Carlos Mabagsic. When Ninay was still alive, Mabagsic was falsely accused of being the leader of a rebellion. Mabagsic's accuser was Federico Silveyro, an entrepreneur from Portugal. Mabagsic went abroad. Upon his return, Mabagsic found out that Ninay confined herself in a convent. Mabagsic became a victim of cholera and died. Ninay also died of cholera. The other victims of the wickedness of the Portuguese Federico Silveyro were the couple named Loleng and Berto. Silveyro was the cause of Loleng's death. Berto avenged Loleng's death by killing Silveyro.
Maerth asserted that the eating of brain produces an aphrodisiac effect (presumably due to the vast amount of hormones in it), and that this initially caused apes to become addicted to them, organizing brain hunts wherein the males of another tribe were eaten and the females raped in a frenzy of brain-induced sex and violence. However, this diet also inadvertently increased brain size and intelligence while triggering the loss both of body hair and of our innate psychic abilities. Thus man gradually came into being, remaining cannibalistic until 50,000 years ago. Modern humans, alienated from their surroundings now that they've no telepathic contact with nature and each other as animals do, suffering from a distorted sexuality resulting from hormonal imbalances, and driven insane from the constant pressure of their unnaturally large brains pressing on the inside of their skulls,Maerth (1974), page 53: are inevitably destroying themselves with pollution, overpopulation, racial integration and ultimately, nuclear war. He foresees a return to cannibalism in the near future,Maerth (1974), page 199: and suggests that the reader should drop out of society, embrace a vegetarian diet, steep himself in the wisdom of the East and perhaps employ various wooden frames and wire devices to alter the shape of his skull as some ancient cultures did, thus relieving the pressure on the brain and partially restoring psychic powers.
The Shepherd's Paradise deals with a mythical pastoral community dedicated to Platonic love, a refuge for unrequited lovers of both genders &mdash; "a peaceful receptacle of distressed minds." The Shepherd's Paradise is ruled by Bellesa, "beauty," who was certainly played by Henrietta Maria. The heroine of the piece is Fidamira. Much of Montagu's plot, such as it is, centers upon a prince named Basilino and his bosom friend Agenor, who have a shared tendency to fall in love with the same women. (The work is complicated by the fact that characters take on pseudonyms when entering the Paradise: Basilino becomes Moramente, while Agenor calls himself Genorio.) By the close of the play, Agenor/Genorio is revealed to be Prince Palante, long-lost son of the king of Navarre. The masque also features an extended debate on the nature of love, between Martiro, who speaks for the Platonic ideal, and Moramente and Melidoro, who argue for marriage. Since the play ends in the marriages typical of comedy &mdash; Basilino/Moramente marries Bellesa who is actually Sapphira, Princess of Navarre, his original betrothed, while Agenor/Genorio/Palante marries Basilino's sister &mdash; the text can be interpreted as suggesting a triumph of marital union over Platonic love. Fidamira is revealed as sister to both Bellesa/Sapphira and Agenor/Genorio/Palante, the lost princess Miranda; she remains chaste, but she gets to be queen of the Shepherd's Paradise at the end.
This book is written in three parts. "Book One: The Romantic Egotist"—the novel centers on Amory Blaine, a young Midwesterner who, convinced that he has an exceptionally promising future, attends boarding school and later Princeton University. He leaves behind his eccentric mother Beatrice and befriends a close friend of hers, Monsignor Darcy. While at Princeton he goes back to Minneapolis where he re-encounters Isabelle Borgé, a young lady whom he met as a little boy and starts a romantic relationship with her, but after a few days he becomes disillusioned by her and returns to Princeton. "Interlude"—Following their break-up, Amory is shipped overseas, to serve in the army in World War I. Fitzgerald had been in the army himself, but the war ended while he was still stationed on Long Island. Amory's experiences in the war are not described, other than to say later in the book that he was a bayonet instructor. "Book Two: The Education of a Personage"—After the war, Amory Blaine falls in love with a New York debutante named Rosalind Connage. Because he is poor, however, this relationship collapses as well; Rosalind decides to marry a wealthy man instead. A devastated Amory is further crushed to learn that his mentor Monsignor Darcy has died. The book ends with Amory's iconic lament, "I know myself, but that is all."
The novel opens when Dr. Manno, the town pharmacist, receives an anonymous letter made up of newspaper cuttings. The letter contains a death threat, but is dismissed by the locals as a practical joke. However, when Dr. Manno and his hunting companion, Dr. Roscio, are found murdered the next day, it becomes quite apparent that the letter was intended to do more than simply frighten the pharmacist from engaging in his favourite pastime. Although the double-homicide is interesting gossip for the townspeople, nobody gives the motives for the murders a second thought, and it is assumed that the pharmacist would have known the reason for his murder and would have thus deserved the consequences. Everybody in the town continues with their daily lives after a short lapse of time apart from Professor Laurana. When Dr. Manno initially received the letter, Laurana notices the word "UNICUIQUE" and proudly believes to be the only person with the knowledge to solve the case. For months Laurana follows various leads, and before long finds himself entangled in a web of corruption from which he cannot escape. Prof. Laurana is soon regarded to be a threat by the perpetrators of the crime, and it does not take long before he too is murdered.
After her adventures in Nightbirds On Nantucket, Dido Twite is travelling back to England on the HMS Thrush. En route, she befriends the ship's open-minded steward, Holystone. The ship changes course, landing on the coast of New Cumbria. Bound by ancient treaties between Britain and New Cumbria, they are given orders to assist Ginevra, the Queen. Travelling to Bath, the capital city, the crew learn that Ginevra wants them to help her recover a lake, which she claims has been stolen by New Cumbria's neighbour, Lyonesse. It seems that she is the same immortal Ginevra, or Guinevere, of myth and has waited centuries for the return of her king, Arthur. Unfortunately, she has attained immortality by cannibalistic vampirism, murdering and consuming local maidens. It then transpires that Holystone is an incarnation of Arthur, who for a thousand years had lain in suspended animation on an island in the missing lake. But this Arthur is not at all pleased at the monstrosity his ancient spouse has become.
The novel opens with the family in the hold of a sailing ship, weathering a great storm. The ship runs aground on a reef, and the family learns the ship's crew has taken to a lifeboat and abandoned them. Subsequent searches for the crew yield no trace. The ship survives the night as the storm abates, and the family finds themselves within sight of a tropical island. The ship's cargo of livestock, dogs, guns & powder, carpentry tools, books, a disassembled pinnace, and provisions have survived. The family builds a raft, lashes livestock and the most valuable supplies to it, and paddles to the island, where they set up a temporary shelter. Over the next few weeks they make several expeditions back to the ship, to empty its hold, and harvest rigging, planks, and sails. They construct a small homestead on the island, and the ship's hull eventually breaks up in a storm and founders. The middle of the book is a series of vignettes, covering several years. The father and older boys explore various environments about the island, discover various (improbable) plants and animals, and build a large tree house, complete with a library. They also use the carpentry tools and local resources to build mechanical contraptions. Eventually, sailing the pinnace around the island's coast, they discover a European family hiding from local pirates. They adopt their daughter (who at first masquerades as a boy), and her father returns on a rescue mission, restoring the family's contact to the
The plot mainly deals with the title character, Latawnya, the youngest horse in her family. While out playing with her sisters Latoya and Daisy, they come across some other mares: Connie, Chrystal, Jackie and Angie. They ask Latawnya if she wants to engage in "smoking games" and "drinking games". Latawnya realizes that they want to smoke drugs and drink alcohol, and she joins in. Her sisters catch her with the three "bad" horses and proceed to criticize her for "smoking drugs and drinking", something that their parents tell them not to do. Although Latawnya begs Latoya and Daisy not to tell their parents, they tell on her anyway, resulting in an uncomfortable confrontation with them, as they are disappointed in her experimenting with smoking drugs and drinking. After an intense lecture from her parents (including a scene wherein an old friend of the father horse suffers an overdose after engaging in smoking games and drinking games), Latawnya realizes the error of her ways and promises never to engage in "smoking games" and "drinking games" again.
The novel begins with questioning the mere physicality of the man-woman relationship but then transports the reader into the higher planes of platonic love. The central character of the novel is Kuki, a Hindu woman from India who falls (and then rises) in love with a Muslim artist from Pakistan . The unusualness of the socio-cultural background of these two characters is delicately portrayed by Sahoo in a sensitive and convincing manner. Readers become familiar with the two sets of roles that Kuki plays; that of a lover and that of a wife. Sahoo subtly balances these two roles and at the same time, highlights the superiority of a wife in a pragmatic world. But the novel is not merely a love story. Though love is a part of the novel, it deals with a much broader topic: the providence of a woman in India. At the same time, it also portrays a story of how a perverted man, over time, becomes a perfect man. It also delves into the relationship between the ‘state’ and the ‘individual’ and comes to the conclusion that ‘the state’ represents the moods and wishes of a ruler and hence, ‘the state’ actually becomes a form of ‘an individual.’ Additionally, it takes a broader look at terrorism and state-sponsored anarchism.
The book attacked the use of investment funds to promote the consolidation of various industries under the control of a small number of corporations, which Brandeis alleged were working in concert to prevent competition. Brandeis harshly criticized investment bankers who controlled large amounts of money deposited in their banks by middle-class people. The heads of these banks, Brandeis pointed out, routinely sat on the boards of railroad companies and large industrial manufacturers of various products, and routinely directed the resources of their banks to promote the interests of their own companies. These companies, in turn, sought to maintain control of their industries by crushing small businesses and stamping out innovators who developed better products to compete against them. Brandeis supported his contentions with a discussion of the actual dollar amounts—in millions of dollars—controlled by specific banks, industries, and industrialists such as J. P. Morgan, noting that these interests had recently acquired a far larger proportion of American wealth than corporate entities had ever had before. He extensively cited testimony from a Congressional investigation performed by the Pujo Committee, named after Louisiana Representative Arsène Pujo, into self-serving and monopolistic business dealing.
Set against the backdrop of the Hindi film industry, Trust Me is a comic story about love, heart-break and friendship. The protagonist, Parvati, decides to go off men when she is dumped by her boyfriend. She concludes that her girlfriends are right: all men are bastards. Her boss, the fatherly Mr Bose, is the one shoulder she can cry on. He is also the one man she never expects a pass from. She stands corrected: all men ARE bastards. Her girlfriends manage to keep their I-told-you-so’s to themselves. Parvati quits her job, and joins the unit of Jambuwant (‘Call me Jumbo!’) Sinha, assisting him in making his latest Hindi feature film. ‘Jumbo’ is a Bombay film-maker archetype: he believes in white shoes, black money and the casting couch. Manoj, the chief assistant, makes a pass at every woman he meets because he doesn’t want anybody to feel unwanted. And Rahul, an actor, claims to have fallen in love with her. Parvati hopes she is older now, and smarter - but perhaps not smart enough, because, very inconveniently, she finds herself liking Rahul far too much.
Cosmos has 13 heavily illustrated chapters, corresponding to the 13 episodes of the Cosmos television series. In the book, Sagan explores 15 billion years of cosmic evolution and the development of science and civilization. Cosmos traces the origins of knowledge and the scientific method, mixing science and philosophy, and speculates to the future of science. The book also discusses the underlying premises of science by providing biographical anecdotes about many prominent scientists throughout history, placing their contributions into the broader context of the development of modern science. Cornell News Service characterized the book as "an overview of how science and civilization grew up together." The book covers a broad range of topics, comprising Sagan's reflections on anthropological, cosmological, biological, historical, and astronomical matters from antiquity to contemporary times. Sagan reiterates his position on extraterrestrial life—that the magnitude of the universe permits the existence of thousands of alien civilizations, but no credible evidence exists to demonstrate that such life has ever visited earth.
Cat and Pedro decide to earn a living as a duet of acting and playing the violin, as Cat feels uncomfortable at living with Frank, Lizzie and Johnny without working, and Pedro decides to go with her. Syd is very upset at the prospect of Cat going away from him again but puts up with it for Cat's sake. In Jamaica, Cat and Pedro are disgusted to learn that slavery is still common and both are frightened and horrified when they discover that Pedro's former owner, Mr Hawkins is in Jamaica. Mr Hawkins thinks that slavery is lawful and fair, and he still believes that Pedro belongs to him. He taunts Cat after her performance on stage and then finally kidnaps her. At his plantation Cat falls ill with malaria and while she is still delusional and sick Billy rescues her. He forces her to but a slave which Pedro is disgusted at, but he soon learns to forgive Cat. In the end Cat gets involved in a slave revolt but Pedro tells her to leave, while he will stay and help his fellow men gain their rights of freedom and equality. Cat is heartbroken to leave Pedro alone but she knows she must, so she and Billy leave together.
The book begins with a prologue set at the 2009 FIRST Championship in Atlanta and describes the exciting environment there. It then switches back to the kickoff event in January 2009 and describes Dean Kamen and how he founded FIRST. Afterwards, it details the history of team 1717 and the program that it is a part of, the Dos Pueblos Engineering Academy. Then the book describes how the 2009 team winds its way through a 6 week build season, enduring many struggles from mechanical failures to a bout of sickness. A chapter is dedicated to team 217, the Thunderchickens, who attempt to construct a robot with military style precision, and to team 395, 2TrainRobotics, whose students must deal with issues related to being in the poor inner city, as well as to team 67, Heroes of Tomorrow. After the build season, team 1717 competes in two regional competitions, Los Angeles and Sacramento. The team loses in the finals at Los Angeles, and wins in Sacramento after going undefeated. 1717 then competes in the FIRST Championship, where it loses to a heavily favored team in the division finals.
The vast lake, Lake Agassiz, covered much of North Dakota, Manitoba and Minnesota during prehistoric times. The story begins when farmer Tom Lasker and his son, Will, uncover a seemingly brand new yacht. Found on a landlocked farm, it draws tourists to the area. Max Collingswood, a friend of Tom's, tries to help discover the origins of the boat. Collingswood enlists April Cannon, a worker at a chemical lab who discovers that the yacht is made of an unknown material. In fact, it is a fiberglass-like material with an impossible atomic number (161). Collingswood and Cannon discover something else on a nearby ridge which is part of a Sioux reservation. The Sioux assist in its excavation and examination. It turns out to a green glassy roundhouse-like structure, made from the same material. Eventually, they gain access to it, revealing a dock for the sailboat, but no entrance for it. The discovery that the structure contains the means to access other sites not on Earth sets off a struggle between the Government and the Reservation for control of it.
In the prologue, set in May 1958, Talbot, owner of "Trans Carib Air Charter Co" was in radio contact with one of his planes en route to Tampa, Florida, as it is being shot down by an American military plane. This resulted in the death of Talbot's family. Two years later, Talbot has apparently turned to a life of crime, for which he is now facing sentencing in a courtroom. He escapes, taking a young woman hostage. A reward is put out on his head, and he is captured by a thug who turns him in to the hostage's father. Instead of turning him over to the police, however, the father hires him for some not entirely legitimate tasks. The father, it turns out, has been consorting with some shady characters including a born killer. The story becomes straight action with car chases, gunfights, the mafia, a beautiful woman, mysterious doings aboard an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, and a sunken DC-3 at the bottom of ocean with a secret treasure, as Talbot searched for answers to his long quest to find the murderers of his family. In typically MacLean style, the reader comes to find that nothing in this complicated plot is quite as it seems. In addition to a clever story, the level of tension is pitched extremely high. There is scarcely a let up from the action until reaching a gripping climax.
After having haughtily refused a number of suitors, under the pretext that they are not peers of France, Émilie de Fontaine falls in love with a mysterious young man who quietly appeared at the village dance at Sceaux. Despite his refined appearance and aristocratic bearing, the unknown (Maximilien Longueville) never tells his identity and seems interested in nobody but his sister, a sickly young girl. But he is not insensible to the attention Émilie gives him and he accepts the invitation of Émilie’s father, the Comte de Fontaine. Émilie and Maximilien soon fall in love. The Comte de Fontaine, concerned for his daughter, decides to investigate this mysterious young man, and he discovers him on the Rue du Sentier, a simple cloth merchant, which horrifies Émilie. Piqued, she marries a 70 year old uncle for his title of Vice Admiral, the Comte de Kergarouët. Several years after her marriage, Émilie discovers that Maximilien is not a clothier at all, but in fact a Vicomte de Longueville who has become a Peer of France. The young man finally explains why he secretly tended a store: he did it in order to support his family, sacrificing himself for his sick sister and for his brother, who had departed the country.
Two sisters, Grace and Marion, live happily in an English village with two servants Clemency Newcome and Ben Britain, and their good-natured widower father Dr Jeddler. Dr Jeddlar is a man whose philosophy is to treat life as a farce. Marion, the younger, is bethrothed to Albert Heathfield, Jeddlar's ward who is leaving the village to complete his studies. He entrusts Marion to Grace's care and makes a promise to return to win Marion's hand. Michael Warden, a libertine who is about to leave the country, is thought by the barristers Snitchey and Craggs to be about to seduce the younger sister into an elopement. Clemency spies Marion one night in her clandestine rendezvous with Warden. On the day that Albert is to return, however, it is found out that Marion has run off. Her supposed elopement causes much grief to both her father and her sister. Six years pass. Clemency is now married to Britain and the two have set up a tavern in the village. After nursing heartbreak, Albert marries Grace instead and she bears him a daughter, also called Marion. On the birthday of Marion, Grace confides in Albert that Marion has made a promise to explain her so-called "elopement" in person. Marion indeed appears that evening by sunset and explains her disappearance to the parties involved. It turns out that Marion has not "eloped" but has instead been living at her aunt Martha's place so as to allow Albert to fall in love with Grace. Tears
In 1857, after their attempts to smuggle contraband goods land them with a heavy fine from the British Customs, Captain Illiam Quillian Kewley and his crew of Manx sailors are forced to offer their ship for charter. The vessel is quickly hired by a party of Englishmen headed by an eccentric Vicar, the Reverend Geoffrey Wilson, who believes that the Garden of Eden is located in Tasmania and wants to mount an expedition there to find it. However, unbeknownst to the clergyman, one of his fellow travellers has an entirely different reason for journeying to the island. Dr Thomas Potter is a renowned surgeon who is developing a thesis on the races of man and hopes to find some interesting specimens there. Running parallel with this story, but starting some 30 or so years earlier, are the recollections of Peevay, one of Tasmania's natives, who describes the devastating impact the white settlers had on his people, and the aborigines' struggle to adapt to the cultural changes which were forced on them. Many of the chapters alternate between the two different time periods, but when the Manx ship eventually docks in Tasmania, both strands of the story are brought together for the book's conclusion.
Hank the Cowdog finds that there has been a murder on his ranch, so he sets off to investigate. After a few adventures, Hank thinks the Coyote Brotherhood is responsible for the killing. He travels to the Coyote Brotherhood, and demands to know who the murderer is. The coyotes just laugh and hold Hank hostage, and plan to eat him by dawn; it is later revealed that the coyotes were not responsible for the murder. Hank could have easily escaped had not Chief Guts ordered Rip and Snort, two stupid coyote brothers, to make sure Hank does not run away. They keep him in a cave, guarding the exit. Then Hank escapes (with the help of Missy Coyote) to his ranch. Once gets out he runs back to the ranch to find the real murderers. Apparently the real murderers were a dog named Buster and a gang of two dogs with a pug named Muggs as his assistant. Hank says mean things to the coyote (Scrunch,and Rip and Snort) and Buster and his gang but makes them think that it was each other that was saying mean things to them. The coyotes and the gang got into a fight and the coyotes won and chased the gang off the ranch. That's where the story ends.
As with most D&D adventures, the exact storyline varies based on the actions that the game's players choose for their player characters (PCs), although a general course of action is assumed by the adventure. The story begins with the PCs meeting up in the elven settlement of Solace after five years of unsuccessful individual quests to find any sign of "true clerics". A series of wilderness encounters are used to direct the PCs to find the Blue Crystal Staff and take it to the ancient ruined city of Xak Tsaroth. In the jungle-covered subterranean ruins of Xak Tsaroth the player characters search for knowledge of the ancient gods of good, and first encounter the invading draconians. They also find baby dragons and encounter Khisanth, an ancient black dragon. The PCs follow the fleeing dragon down a well, where they must negotiate the first level of a dungeon typical of Dungeons & Dragons adventures, filled with draconians, gully dwarf slaves, and other monsters. On the second level of the dungeon the PCs must confront and defeat Khisanth. This is an extremely challenging task for the party. but if they have her Blue Crystal Staff, they will be aided by the goddess Mishakal. The adventure ends with the PCs recovering the Disks of Mishakal, allowing for the return of true clerics to Krynn for the first time in over 300 years.
The story opens on the island of Saint-Domingue (current day Haiti) in the late 18th century. Zarite (known as Tete) is the daughter of an African mother she never knew and one of the white sailors who brought her into bondage. As a young girl Tete is purchased by Violette, a mixed race courtesan, on behalf of Toulouse Valmorain, a Frenchman who has inherited his father's sugar plantation. Valmorain has big dreams of financial success and is somewhat ambivalent towards slavery. He views it as a means to an end, as he does most things. Upon Valmorain's marriage, Tete becomes his wife's personal slave. Valmorain's wife is fragile, beautiful, and slowly succumbs to madness. As Valmorain's wife goes mad, Valmorain forces Tete, now a teenager, into sexual servitude, which produces several illegitimate children. Spanning four decades, the narrative leaps between the social upheavals from the distant French Revolution to the Haitian slave rebellion in all its brutality and chaos, to a New Orleans fomenting with cultural change.
On April 23, 1992 a scientific team led by astrophysicist George Smoot announced that they had found the primordial "seeds" from which the universe has grown. They analyzed data gathered by NASA's Cosmic Background Explorer satellite and discovered the oldest known objects in the universe&nbsp;— so called "wrinkles" in time&nbsp;— thus finding a long-anticipated missing piece in the Big Bang model. In this book, Smoot tells the remarkable tale of his quest for what has been called the cosmologists' Holy Grail. His quest for the seeds of structure in the universe consumed about twenty years. The book traces the obstacle course of discovery. In the book Smoot describes the adventure and along the way he brings the reader up to date in cosmology, giving brief introductions to some important concepts and discoveries in Physics and Cosmology. The research in the book eventually resulted in Smoot winning the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physics; and the book was reprinted in 2007 as a result of the new interest generated by the award. On the cover of the reprint, theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking calls Smoot's observations in the book "the scientific discovery of the century, if not all time".
The book opens in the autumn of 1558, just after the death of Mary I, and bells are heralding the fact that Mary's half-sister, Elizabeth, is now queen. The book is told from four main perspectives: Elizabeth I's; William Cecil's, the queen's main advisor; Robert Dudley, the queen's favourite; and Amy Robsart's, who is Robert Dudley's wife. Robert Dudley returns to court upon Elizabeth's coronation, and Amy hopes that his ambitions will not get him into trouble. During Mary's reign, Dudley was kept in the Tower of London, his father and brother were executed, and another brother died in Calais. However, her hopes for the quiet life soon die, as Elizabeth and Robert become closer and more intimate. Elizabeth has inherited a bankrupt and rebellious country, in turmoil as a result of the previous two monarch's reigns. Her advisor, William Cecil, warns that she will only survive if she marries a strong prince, but the only man that Elizabeth desires is her childhood friend, and married man, Robert Dudley. Robert is sure that he can reclaim his destiny at Elizabeth's side. And as queen and courtier fall in love, Dudley begins to contemplate the impossible - setting aside his loving wife to marry the young Elizabeth...
The eponymous heroine, Isabel Thorne, is a young woman, half British, half Italian, who works for the Italian secret service and who has been commissioned to bring about the signing of the secret contract right in the capital of the enemy by representatives of all countries involved, both European and American. Her brother, an inventor, has devised a secret weapon by which missiles can be fired from submarines (see also depth charge) which will, it is hoped, secure military dominion over the rest of the world. Members of the U.S. Secret Service, who have been alerted, are assigned to prevent the signing of this "Latin compact" and bring to justice those involved who have no diplomatic immunity. One young representative by the name of Grimm, however, although absolutely loyal to his government, falls in love with the beautiful foreign agent. In the end Isabel Thorne, who reciprocates her admirer's love, becomes estranged from her employer, the Italian government, because she does not want Grimm, who has been captured by the conspirators and knows all their secrets, to be murdered. Stripped of all her power and possessions, she unites with him at the end of the novel, no longer elusive. A trivial novel in its time, Elusive Isabel has been completely forgotten but can now be easily accessed via the Project Gutenberg web site.
William J. Hypperbone, an eccentric millionaire, living in Chicago, has left the sum of his fortune, $60,000,000, to the first person to reach the end of "The Noble Game of the United States of America." The game he devised is based upon the board game "The Noble Game of Goose"; however, in his version, the players are the tokens and the game board is the United States. The contestants are Max Réal (with his companion Tommy); Tom Crabbe (with his trainer John Milner); Hermann Titbury (with his wife Kate); Harris T. Kymbale (on his own); Lizzie Wag (with her friend Jovita Foley); Hodge Urrican (with his companion Turk) and the mysterious player only known as "XKZ." And who is this mysterious "XKZ" who was added to the game by a codicil to the will? Time and completion of the game will tell. (Courtesy djk) In 1897 the first Baedecker guide book for the U.S. was published, and Verne used this as the source for his descriptions of the modes of transport, timetables, and geographic descriptions of the numerous places the twelve participants were required to visit in order to claim the prize.
The story opens with three men – Lu Decheng, Yu Dongyue, and Yu Zhijian – who have just defaced Mao Zedong’s portrait in Tiananmen Square in 1989. Decheng, Dongyue, and Zhijian are three friends from Southern China who have traveled to Beijing to express their sentiment towards the Chinese Communist Party. The leading character, Decheng, is the activist on which this book is inspired upon. As the story unfolds, discontent and frustration are shown through Decheng’s life and the people surrounding him – from the education reforms of the Cultural Revolution to the Protest of 1989. Decheng’s friend, Zhijan, a fellow activist who took part in defacing the portrait, express the reasons why the three vandalized the portrait: “to motivate the student leadership to question the legitimacy of the Communist regime itself, and therefore its very authority to impose a state of martial law.” Throughout the book, Chong reveals events in Decheng’s life that lead up his decision – from his refusal to cry on cue with his classmates after Mao’s death to hearing about the brutality of the Chinese Communist Party from his grandmother. After the activists’ act of vandalism, the three are sentenced to prison. During his imprisonment, Decheng’s wife divorces him. Years later, upon his return to Liuyang, Hunan, he remarries. The story has alternating chapters, shifting through periods of Decheng’s life, from his time in prison to memories earlier in his adolescent years. The book ends with the moments leading up to the defacing of Mao’s
Pope Alexander VI (formerly Rodrigo Borgia) believes God will ultimately forgive his many sins simply because, as Pope, he is infallible and divine. The Family focuses on this cunning, ambitious despot and his children—the ruthless Cesare and the beautiful but wicked Lucrezia. A passionate love story runs through the novel, but it is a sinful one. Lucrezia lost her virginity to her brother Cesare when she was only thirteen, and the two have loved only each other ever since. Alexander marries Lucrezia off for political reasons. She remains submissive to her father, if not to her many husbands and lovers. Pope Alexander aims to unify Italy’s feudal states under papal rule. Cesare, who exchanges his cardinal’s miter for a warrior’s helmet to become commander-in-chief of his father’s armies, carries out conquest after conquest to fulfill Alexander’s grandiose ambitions. As in Puzo’s The Godfather, the lovemaking, the opulent festivities, the sub rosa plotting, and the complex double-dealing are interspersed with outbursts of violence, including one memorable scene in which the reformist priest Girolamo Savonarola is torn apart on the Rack. cs:Rodina (kniha) es:Los Borgia (novela) pl:Rodzina Borgiów (powieść) pt:Os Bórgias
The story opens as fifteen year old Cait recounts events occurring a year before on her small island home, Hale, which is roughly four miles long and two miles across at its greatest extent. She begins her story by explaining when she first met Lucas, a mysterious teenager who has traveled to the island to explore and live for a short time period. On the same day that she first sees Lucas, her brother returns home and she is nearly assaulted by another islander, Jamie Tait. However, Lucas is not accepted into the island community easily, due to the discrimination he receives at the hands of the town folk. He works a few odd jobs, but is the victim of attempted assault, forcing him to defend himself and earn a negative reputation. Primarily this comes from Jamie Tait, a university student and popular islander from a wealthy family. The negative behavior escalates when Lucas rescues a young girl from drowning during a town festival, but is met with accusations of molestation. Lucas is forced into hiding. However, he feels an urge to visit Cait one last time. Unfortunately, Jamie has decided to frame Lucas for the rape, assault and attempted murder of a promiscuous islander named Angel, who had befriended Bill, Cait's old best friend. The novel climaxes as the islanders attempt to capture Lucas, who is innocent of the crime.
Amber and Ashes is set in Krynn shortly after the death of Takhisis at the end of the War of Souls. Magic is back, and so are the gods. But the gods are vying for supremacy, and the war has caused widespread misery, uprooting entire nations and changing the balance of power on Ansalon. The mysterious warrior-woman Mina, brooding on her failure and the loss of her goddess, makes a pact with evil in a seductive guise. As a strange vampiric cult spreads throughout the fragile world, unlikely heroes—a wayward monk and a kender who can communicate with the dead—join forces to try to uproot the cause of the growing evil. It begins with Chemosh talking to himself in an abandoned temple about his plans to rule the pantheon and obtaining living servants as opposed to the dead. Shortly after, Mina and Galdar are seen. Mina is grieving the death of Takhisis and is about to kill herself when Chemosh intervenes and makes her his lover. It is then that the plot to create the Beloved of Chemosh begins.
Former homicide cop Lily Yu has a lot on her plate. There's her sister's wedding, a missing magical staff with unknown powers, and her grandmother's sudden decision to visit the old country just when Lily could use a little advice. Maybe she should turn to the man she's involved with, but for all the passion that flares between them, she doesn't really know Rule Turner. Yet she's tied to him for life, both of them caught in an unbreakable mate bond. That Rule is a werewolf, prince of his people, only complicates matters. Now an agent in a special unit of the FBI's Magical Crimes Division, Lily's job is to hunt down Harlowe, a charismatic cult leader bent on bringing an ancient evil into the world. But what Lily doesn't realize is that Harlowe has set a trap-for her. And then the unthinkable happens. In the blink of any eye Lily's world divides and collides, and she is thrust into a new and frightening reality. Her only hope will be to trust Rule-and herself-or Lily will be lost forever...
Set in mountainous Sevier County, Tennessee in the 1960s, Child of God tells the story of Lester Ballard, a dispossessed, violent man whom the narrator describes as "a child of God much like yourself perhaps." Ballard's life is a disastrous attempt to exist outside the social order. Successively deprived of parents and homes and with few other ties, Ballard descends literally and figuratively to the level of a cave dweller as he falls deeper into crime and degradation. The novel is structured in three segments, each segment describing the ever-growing isolation of the protagonist from the society. In the first part of the novel, we have a group of unidentified narrators from Sevierville who retrospectively tell us about and frame Lester within that community’s mythology and historical consciousness. The second and third parts of the novel increasingly leave culture and community behind as Lester goes from squatter to cave-dweller to serial killer and necrophile as he becomes increasingly associated with pre-modern and inanimate phenomena. The novel ends with the dehumanized and mutilated Ballard dying in incarceration, while the long-hidden corpses of his victims are unearthed from his subterranean haunt.
The novel features Lucky, a 10-year-old girl who lives in a small town called Hard Pan (population 43) in the California desert with her two friends Lincoln, who is an avid knot tyer and expected by his mother to be the president when he grows up, and Miles, a five year old whose favorite book is "Are You My Mother?" by P.D. Eastman. After her mother died two years ago from being electrocuted, her father called upon his first ex-wife, Brigitte, to come to the United States from France to take care of Lucky. Lucky fears that Brigitte is tired of being her guardian and of their life in Hard Pan. When she discovers Brigette's suitcase and passport lying out, she becomes convinced that Brigitte will abandon her and return to France. This anxiety prompts Lucky to seek help from her "Higher Power", a notion she gets from eavesdropping at her town's 12-step meetings. After discovering three "signs" to leave, she runs away with her dog, HMS Beagle, during a sandstorm. Outside of town, however, she finds Miles, lost and injured in the storm, and takes him with her. They take shelter in the dugouts near an abandoned mine and wait out the storm. They are soon joined by Lincoln, who tells them that the rest of the town is looking for them, and will be there shortly. Before she leaves the dugouts, she casts her mother's ashes out in the wind in a makeshift memorial service with the townsfolk.
Tirant lo Blanch tells the story of a medieval knight Tirant from Brittany who has a series of adventures across Europe in his quest. He joins in knightly competitions in England and France until the Emperor of the Byzantine Empire asks him to help in the war against the Ottoman Turks, an Islamic tribe of invaders threatening Constantinople, the capital and seat of the Empire. Tirant accepts and is made Megaduke of the Byzantine Empire and the captain of an army. He defeats the Turkish invaders and saves the Empire from destruction. Afterwards, he fights the Turks in many regions of the eastern Mediterranean and north Africa, but he dies just before he can marry the pretty heiress of the Byzantine Empire. The loss of Constantinople to the Ottoman Empire in 1453 was considered at the time to be a major blow to Christian Europe. In writing his novel, Martorell perhaps rewrote history to fit what he wanted it to be - which in a way makes it a precursor of the present-day genre of alternate history.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, a lampshade, purported to be made from the skin of a Jewish Holocaust victim, turned up in a sidewalk rummage sale in New Orleans. Purchased for $35 by Skip Henderson, the lampshade was sent to his friend Mark Jacobson, a writer living in New York. Jacobson embarked on a quest to discover the origin of the lampshade. Genetic testing showed that it was indeed made from human skin. However, because of the condition of the tanned skin, there was no way to determine the ethnic origin of the person whose skin was used, or if it was indeed a relic of the Holocaust. Over the course of the next few years Jacobson attempted to track down the origin of and examine the meaning of the lampshade, how it ended up in New Orleans, and to decide what to ultimately do with the gruesome object. Both the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., and the Yad Vashem museum in Jerusalem, declined to take possession of the lampshade, saying that the concentration camp lampshades made of human skin were probably a "myth." Over the course of his investigation, Jacobson examines the history of the Buchenwald concentration camp, where such objects were reputed to have been made, as well as the racial and post-Katrina history of New Orleans, the world of Holocaust deniers, the black market trafficking in such goods, and the mythology surrounding objects made from human skin.
Count von Count and other Muppets are returning from a country drive in the Countmobile. But, in classic suspense/horror movie fashion, the bridge is out, so the group has to spend the night at a spooky old house. A giant monster butler escorts each character to a room, decorated entirely in one of the seven colors of the rainbow. No one is especially gruntled by their accommodations: Cookie Monster longs for a green cookie to go well with his green room, while the Count von Count does not like his red room (not one little bit of it), Ernie is not too thrilled with his purple room, Oscar the Grouch finds himself trapped in a bright pink room, filled with flowers and hearts, while Bert longs for a beige room over an orange one, Betty Lou is blinded by yellow, and even Grover finds himself depressed by his matching blue room. The group rapidly depart the next morning, happy to leave the weird house and return. The Sesame Street residents are unaware that the House of Seven Colors is in fact a tourist attraction, frequented by vast car and busloads of monsters who feel right at home in rooms that match their fur.
A spaceship from Earth on a scientific mission to the Crab Nebula encounters an alien ship on a similar mission. The aliens are humanoid with a few differences, such as 'speaking' with microwaves rather than sound, but with far more similarities, such as a shared sense of humor. The crews of the two ships soon devise a means of communication, and find that they get along well. However, each group fears that they cannot allow the other to leave, and potentially carry information back to that species' home planet which would allow the destruction of the other. Months pass with the ships in stalemate before a junior scientific member of the human crew comes up with a proposal that allows both crews to return home without destroying each other: swap ships, but erase all records of their own home. First Contact was among the stories selected in 1970 by the Science Fiction Writers of America as one the best science fiction short stories published before the creation of the Nebula Awards. As such, it was published in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame Volume One, 1929-1964.
A spacecraft filled with refugees from a cosmic catastrophe crash-lands on an unmapped planet. There the survivors must face the reality of their precarious situation; the ship was lost and little had been salvaged from it. Everything comes to depend on one bright young man accidentally among them, a trainee planet-builder ("polymath"). While it would have been his job to oversee all aspects of establishing a successful colony he faces major difficulties; not only is his education incomplete, he had been studying a vastly different planet. Two ships escaped the catastrophe. One lands in the jungle in a mountainous area. The other, with the polymath, lands on water, allowing the passengers just enough time to escape the sinking ship. With his education incomplete, he is faced with an array of problems he needs to overcome, in order to ensure the survival, of not only the passengers from his ship, but those on the lost ship as well, who are under the control of a despotic captain determined to get back into space.
In L'Ankou, Ororéa invites Spirou and Fantasio to join her at a congress of magicians in Brittany. When they arrive, they meet strange L'Ankou, who objects to the presence of a nuclear thermal power station on his land. They then save Ororéa from an aggression, but the gangsters manage to escape. At their arrival at the hotel, they find out that Itoh Kata is amongst the magicians invited. The others are telepath Al Kazar, hypnotist monk Capuccino and telekinesist Rethros Athana. Those are currently developing a magic trick based on teleportation. Fantasio is used as guinea-pig during the first representation but is abducted by the gangsters. Ankou reappears and suggests to Spirou and his friends not to try anything against the kidnappers. The latter exert blackmail on the magicians: they are to deliver a revolutionary product developed at the power station in exchange for Fantasio. Kata decides not to say anything to his friends and together, the magicians steal the product. Meanwhile, Fantasio manages to escape and warns the police with Spirou and Ororéa. The gangsters are arrested but the product stolen by the magicians threatens to explode. Fortunately, Spirou warns the magicians in time and Itoh Kata makes the product vanish. This event leads to the power station closing down. L'Ankou is thus grateful towards Spirou and his companions. <!--
The Moviegoer tells the story of Binx Bolling, a young stock-broker in postwar New Orleans. The decline of southern U.S. tradition, the problems of his family and his traumatic experiences in the Korean War have left him alienated from his own life. He day-dreams constantly, has trouble engaging in lasting relationships and finds more meaning and immediacy in movies and books than in his own routine life. The loose plot of the novel follows Binx as he embarks on an undefined "search," wandering around New Orleans, Chicago and the Gulf Coast reflecting philosophically on small episodes and interactions. He is constantly challenged to define himself in relation to friends, family, sweet-hearts and career despite his urge to remain vague and open to possibility. "What is the nature of the search? you ask. Really it is very simple; at least for a fellow like me. So simple that it is easily overlooked. The search is what anyone would undertake if he were not sunk in the everydayness of his own life." The novel is heavily influenced by the existentialist themes of authors like Søren Kierkegaard, whom Percy read extensively. Unlike many dark didactic existentialist novels (including Percy's later work), The Moviegoer has a light poetic tone. It was Percy's first, most famous, and most widely praised novel.
In Remix Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard law professor and a respected voice in what he deems the "copyright wars", describes the disjuncture between the availability and relative simplicity of remix technologies and copyright law. Lessig insists that copyright law as it stands now is antiquated for digital media since every "time you use a creative work in a digital context, the technology is making a copy" (98). Thus, amateur use and appropriation of digital technology is under unprecedented control that previously extended only to professional use. Lessig insists that knowledge and manipulation of multi-media technologies is the current generation's form of "literacy"- what reading and writing was to the previous. It is the vernacular of today. The children growing up in a world where these technologies permeate their daily life are unable to comprehend why "remixing" is illegal. Lessig insists that amateur appropriation in the digital age cannot be stopped but only 'criminalized'. Thus most corrosive outcome of this tension is that generations of children are growing up doing what they know is "illegal" and that notion has societal implications that extend far beyond copyright wars. The book is now available as a free download under one of the Creative Commons' licenses.
The book begins with a frame story which recounts a train journey from Kanpur to Delhi. During the journey, the narrating author meets a beautiful girl. The girl offers to tell the author a story on the condition that he has to make it his second book. After a lot of hesitation, the author agrees. The story within the story, which comprises the bulk of the book, relates the events that happen one night at a call center. Told through the eyes of the protagonist, Shyam, it is a story of almost lost love, thwarted ambitions, absence of family affection, pressures of a patriarchal set up, and the work environment of a globalized office. Shyam loves but has lost Priyanka, who is now planning an arranged marriage with another; Vroom loves Esha. Esha wants to be a model, Radhika is in an unhappy marriage with a demanding mother-in-law, and military uncle wants to talk to his grandson; they all hate Bakshi, their cruel boss. Claimed to be based on a true story, the author chooses Shyam Mehra (alias Sam Marcy) as the narrator and protagonist, who is one among the six call center employees featured.
This story is told by a man named Han Byeong-tae (or Pyongt'ae), recalling his memories when he was in 5th grade. Due to Byeong-tae's father fails in business, they move to a low town and go to Y Elementary School. There, he meets Eom Seokdae (or Om Sokdae), a president of the 5th grade and one who holds everything in his grade, more than his teacher. However, it is really Eom Seokdae forcing students by force to follow him. Byeong-tae fight Soekdae's reign however every student supports Soekdae. Therefore everything goes wrong for him; his parents misunderstand him, his grades go down and his power rankings also go down. Hence he loses, give up, and goes under Seokdae's power. After it, Seokdae gives him a great treatment. First of all, he restores Byeong-tae's power rankings to normal, but higher than before. Second, he makes everyone play with Byeong-tae and is not alone. Byeong-tae also gets his grade back. But the story says, "I was thankful to Seok-hyen. But when I think it back, those things were the things I had lost to Seokdae. He has just given it back." But when Byeong-tae goes to 6th grade, Seokdae's power breaks, due to the new teacher who have senses in the goings. Seokdae, leaves the school and is last seen by Byeong-tae, saying "Do it well." The story zooms to the present. Byeong-tae's riding the train to where Seokdae is living to get a face of him. On the train, someone is
The novel is set in a post-human future solar system. Jean le Flambeur is a legendary thief who has been imprisoned in a Dilemma Prison, a virtual jail of the Sobornost created by the Archons, themselves the creation of the Engineer-of-Souls. During an unsuccessful encounter with the All-Defector, he is sprung from his prison in the Neptunian Trojan belt by Mieli, a warrior from the Oort cloud, and taken to her ship, Perhonen. There, he finds out that his freedom comes at a price: he must return to his old criminal ways to steal something for Mieli's employer, the pellegrini. First, however, he has to retrieve his previous memories, which he had meticulously hidden in the Oubliette, one of the Moving Cities of Mars. In the Oubliette, Isidore Beautrelet is unraveling a gogol piracy case, brought to his attention by his tzaddik mentor, The Gentleman. Isidore is an architecture student and only ten Martian years old, but he has accumulated a reputation as a sharp detective. This case, however, exposes him to unwanted fame, which is extremely gauche in polite Oubliette society, where even people who share a flat remain discreetly behind a cloud of gevulot to avoid the faux pas of violating each other's privacy. Notoriety, however, brought him to the attention of a new client, the millenniaire Christian Unruh. Unruh is about to host a party to commemorate his early entry into Quiet, but a note has appeared under impossible circumstances in his mansion, which Unruh asks Isidore
Ojo the Unlucky is a Munchkin boy who, devoted to life with his uncle Unc Nunkie in the wilderness but on the verge of starvation, goes to see a neighboring "magician" and old friend of Unc’s, Dr. Pipt. While there they see a demonstration of the Pipt-made Powder of Life, which animates any object it touches. Unc Nunkie and Dr. Pipt's wife are also the sufferers of the consequences of another of the Doctor's inventions, the Liquid of Petrifaction, which turns them into solid marble statues. The remainder of this book is Ojo's quest through Oz to retrieve the five components of an antidote to the Liquid: a six-leaved clover found only in the Emerald City, three hairs from the tip of a Woozy's tail, a gill (a quarter of a pint) of water from a dark well (one that remains untouched by natural light), a drop of oil from a live man's body, and the left wing of a yellow butterfly. With the help of the patchwork girl Scraps, Bungle the Glass Cat (another of Dr. Pipt's creations), the Woozy, Dorothy, the Shaggy Man, the Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman, Ojo gathers all of these supplies but the left wing &mdash; the Tin Woodman will not allow any living thing to be killed, even to save another's life. The party returns to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz (one of the few allowed to lawfully practice magic in Oz) restores Unc Nunkie and Dr. Pipt's wife. The
Paula Power inherits a medieval castle from her industrialist father who has purchased it from the aristocratic De Stancy family. She employs two architects, one local and one, George Somerset, newly qualified from London. Somerset represents modernity in the novel. In the village there is an amateur photographer, William Dare, who is the illegitimate son of Captain De Stancy, an impoverished scion of the family. Captain De Stancy represents a dream of medieval nobility to Paula. She is attracted to both men for their different virtues but William Dare decides to intervene to promote his father in her affections. He fakes the telegram and photograph to make it appear Somerset is leading a dissolute lifestyle. His subterfuge is discovered by Captain De Stancy's sister Charlotte who has befriended Paula. She decides to tell Paula the truth and Paula pursues Somerset to the continent where he has gone mistakenly believing Paula and the Captain to have been married. She finds him and they are reunited and marry. The castle burns down and Somerset proposes to build a modern house in its place. The last line has Paula summing up her dichotomy of mind between modernity and romantic medievalism, and thus the two men, also emphasising the title "a Laodicean" (someone indifferent or half-hearted) — "I wish my castle wasn't burnt; and I wish you were a De Stancy!"
Rosalie, a 50 year old widow, finds her youthful manner diminished by the "organic phenomena of her time of life," or menopause. She lives with her adult, but unmarried, daughter and an adolescent son all of who juxtapose youth and her "superannuated" purpose in life. The family hires a young, American-born man to tutor for her son. Rosalie is strongly attracted to him and is soon infatuated. Her abnegating daughter disapproves more strongly now of her still socializing mother. Then, seemingly miraculously, Rosalie's menopause reverses. Where her vitality, and sexual awareness would be in decline, she is in a heightened state of sexual awareness including the return of menstrual bleeding. Rosalie plans a family trip and declares her intentions and availability to the young man. They plan a liaison in the Rhine castle Schloss Benrath, but it never takes place, however. She is found dead of a hemorrhage caused by a metastatic tumor in her uterus. The surgeons' commentary include a discussion on the possible causes of Rosalie's newfound youth. Cancer was an obvious cause of her tumor, but one doctor supposes that it could have been the yearning for love and her altered or re-awakened erotic personality that stimulated her ovaries thereby causing the cancerous growth.
In the not-too-distant future, a cold war threatens to turn hot. Colonization of Mars seems to be mankind's only hope of surviving certain Armageddon. To facilitate this, the American government begins a cyborg program to create a being capable of surviving the harsh Martian environment: Man Plus. After the death of the first candidate, due to the project supervisors forgetting to enhance his brain's ability to process sensory input to cope with the new stimuli he is receiving, Roger Torraway becomes the heart of the program. In order to survive in the thin Martian atmosphere, Roger Torraway's body must be replaced with an artificial one. At every step he becomes more and more disconnected from humanity, unable to feel things in his new body. It is only after arriving on Mars that his new body begins to make sense to him. It is perfectly adapted to this new world, and thus he becomes perfectly separated from his old world, and from humanity. The success of the Martian mission spurs similar cyborg programs in other spacefaring nations. It is revealed that the computer networks of Earth have become sentient, and that ensuring humanity's survival will guarantee theirs as well. In the end, the network is puzzled...it appears that something else was behind the push to space, a mystery even to the machines.
The protagonist is a fifteen year old African American boy named Bobby who lives in an apartment in South Bronx with his mother and siblings. Despite his young age Bobby has intelligence that is advanced to most of the people around him. Bobby's Hispanic girlfriend Maria often spend time together and have plans for the upcoming summer. Bobby and Maria's lives are shattered when a vicious Hispanic street gang attack Bobby and Maria while the two were walking to school. Bobby and Maria are severely beaten and Maria is sent to the hospital suffering from near-fatal wounds. After Bobby is beaten he gets picked up by an old holocaust survivor named Moishe and an unlikely friendship between Bobby and Moishe begins. Maria, unable to cope with the mutilation of her face caused by the lye, commits suicide. We hear Moishe talking about his tragic story while he was in a concentration camp, while Bobby tells Moishe what has happened to him and Maria. Bobby states that deep in his mind, he still has a desperate need for revenge.
After a brief flashback to 1920, with a glimpse of Indiana Jones as a college student in Chicago, the novel moves to its main setting. The year is 1922. Indy is a graduate student in Paris, studying linguistics and Greek archaeology. Although his greater talent currently seems to be for the former, he begins to wonder if he might be better suited for a different career after he receives a surprising invitation from his professor. Following an archaeology lecture to her class on the Greek city of Delphi, Professor Dorian Belecamus announces that she will be leaving the university for the rest of the semester in order to return to Delphi to oversee the recovery of an archaeological find, discovered recently in the wake of an earthquake in the region. After class, to Indy's surprise, she privately invites him to join her on the journey as her assistant, telling him that he is her best student and that she feels he could be very helpful on the expedition. After some consideration, Indy decides to accept the professor's offer in the hopes that assisting in such an exciting undertaking may very well lead him to a more intriguing and adventurous career than world of linguistics may have to offer. He, of course, has no idea exactly how true those ideas will prove to be as he embarks on a journey filled with mysterious figures, deceptive intentions and a lot more waiting for him Delphi than he ever expected.
The novel centres around Timoleon Vieta, a little mongrel dog with black and white patches of fur and eyes as pretty as a girl's. Timoleon lives with Cockcroft, a retired, gay composer, who lives in a run-down farmhouse in Umbria financed by the occasional royalties he receives from the theme tunes he wrote. He reminisces on his failed career and former lovers, but is surprised when a man claiming to be a Bosnian shows up at his door with a business card he says Cockcroft gave him in a bar in Florence; Cockcroft often has such drunken weekends when he attempts to pick up men. In return for the occasional odd job and weekly fellatio Cockcroft puts him up, but Timoleon Vieta, who is a good judge of character, takes against the Bosnian, and the dislike is reciprocated. Cockcroft is forced to choose between them and agrees to abandon the dog in Rome. The remainder of the novel is about Timoleon Vieta's journey back home, and the people he briefly comes into contact with, as he tries to make his way back to his beloved Cockcroft.
Using the help of a hacker friend, Joanna and Deborah try to break into the online records of Wingate Clinic, but are met with failure as it was a very well-protected system. They then decide to get the inside information by first getting in posing as prospective employees. They use Social Security Number of recently deceased women to forge their identity and get employed in the clinic. Joanna (under the alias of Prudence Heatherly) gets the work as a word processing employee while Deborah (under the alias of Georgina Marks) get a job of a lab assistant. In order to get access to the high security data, they steal the Access Card of Wingate Clinic's owner, Spencer Wingate by giving him an overdose of liquor. Using the Access Card, they gain (un)authorized entry into the Server Room, from where the records are managed. Unfortunately for them, as all movements into the Server Room as well as the changes made in the file system are logged, their identity gets revealed. In parallel, they find out that while Joanna was subjected to organ theft, the Clinic illegally performs ovary culture (on stem cells) on all the stolen eggs as well as uses many workers as surrogate mothers. From here starts the chase where the Wingate Clinic's officers try to kill the women and they try to save their lives and bring Wingate's ill-deeds to the knowledge of the world. The novel has an open-ending, leaving the readers to guess what happens to
David Conover and his wife risked everything they had and even went into debt to pursue their dream. In spite of countless warnings and predictions of disastrous outcomes, the southern Californian couple purchased an uninhabited island off the British Columbian coast and set out to turn it into a summer resort. Equipped with absolutely no know-how or experience, but with a supply of tools and books purchased before leaving Los Angeles and a resolute determination to realize their dream they went to their home in the wild which, on more than one occasion in their first year almost left them defeated. The book is an account of an earnest but amateurish effort to perform plumbing, carpentry, well digging, and boat navigation, which produced nearly fatal results and financial ruin. The story is told with a good humor, sensitivity, and insightful philosophy. Mrs Conover earned money to help the family income by drawing pictures of the animals and birds she saw all over their island and selling them to the greeting card companies. Also, they were able to build a few small cabins to rent out and that too helped them financially. They declared the island a sanctuary in that no animal would have to fear for its life. All wildlife was allowed to roam free from all human interference and because of that the island was soon a haven and breeding place for all the wildlife who eventually became unafraid of humans.
Emily Byrd Starr longs to attend Queen's Academy to earn her teaching license, but her tradition-bound relatives at New Moon refuse. She is instead offered the chance to go to Shrewsbury High School with her friends, on two conditions. The first is that she board with her disliked Aunt Ruth, but it is the second that causes Emily difficulties. Emily must not write a word during her high-school education. At first, Emily refuses the offer, unable to contemplate a life without any writing. Cousin Jimmy changes the condition slightly, saying that she cannot write a word of "fiction". Emily does not think this much of an improvement but it turns out to be an excellent exercise for her budding writing career. Although Emily clashes with Aunt Ruth and Evelyn Blake, the school's would-be writer, she starts to develop her powers of storytelling. Through a series of adventures, Emily is furnished with materials to write stories and poems, and even sees success with the short story "The Woman Who Spanked the King." In the meantime, Emily also begins to see romantic possibilities for her life. She and Teddy Kent draw closer, but due to misunderstandings and interference from Teddy's mother, the romance stalls. Emily also refuses a proposal from Perry Miller, and continues her long-lasting friendship with Dean Priest. At the end of the novel, Emily, now a budding young writer, chooses to remain at her beloved New Moon rather than leaving for New York with famous writer Janet Royal.
Kirn's novel tells the story of Justin Cobb, a Minnesota teenager whose family experiences a broad spectrum of dysfunction. Father Mike is a washed-up college football star with a militaristic and unemotional attitude inspired by his former coach. Mother Audrey, a nurse, is struggling to accept how her life has wound down. Younger brother Joel simply does everything he can to fit in and seem normal. Amidst pressures to stop sucking his thumb, 14 year old Justin turns to unorthodox dentist Perry Lyman who attempts to use hypnosis to remedy the problem with limited success: The thumb sucking disappears, but other problem habits arise to take its place. Justin starts behaving oddly, and his condition is 'identified' as attention deficit disorder by his school and he is consequently prescribed Ritalin. The drug appears to help the problem for a time, but this is merely a stop-gap whilst Justin's (and indeed his family's) real problems remain at large. When Justin gives up Ritalin he turns to drugs (pot), sex and religion to combat his problems. Eventually deciding that he's had enough of this life, Justin returns to Perry Lyman who reminds him that we all have flaws, the goal is not to fix them, but to live with them. With this message in mind, Justin is sent off to be a Mormon missionary in New York, and winds up sucking his thumb again, at the expense of the drugs and sex. Coming of age tale touching on the raw emotions experienced
In the twilight of a childhood full of wonder, Billy Argo, Boy detective, is brokenhearted to find his young sister and crime-solving partner, Caroline, has committed suicide. Ten years later, Billy, age thirty, returns from an extended stay at Shady Glens Facility for Mental Incompetence to discover a world full of unimaginable strangeness: office buildings vanish without reason, small animals turn up without their heads, and cruel villains ride city buses to complete their evil schemes. Lost within this unwelcoming place, Billy finds the companionship of two lonely children, Effie and Gus Mumford—one a science fair genius, the other a charming, silent bully. With a nearly forgotten bravery, Billy confronts the monotony of his job in telephone sales, the awkward beauty of a desperate pickpocket named Penny Maple, and the seemingly impossible solution to the mystery of his sister's death. Along a path laden with hidden clues and codes that dare to be deciphered, the boy detective may learn the greatest secret of all: the necessity of the unknown.
That is the emotional story of "the murder of a child’s soul" by a Jesuit priest, a teacher at the private school for boys of Saint-François-Xavier in Vannes, Brittany, where Mirbeau spent four painful years as a pupil, before being expelled, at the age of fifteen, in suspicious circumstances. At age eleven, Sébastien is sent to boarding school by his father, an ironmonger and terrible snob. The boy does not fit into the school and its aristocratic and wealthy students. He is ignored by nearly everyone until a pedophile priest starts to befriend him. The innocent 13-year-old boy is seduced, then sexually abused, by Father de Kern. Sébastien is expelled along with his only friend Bolorec, the boys having been accused of indulging in inapproprite sexual acts. The charges have been trumped up by Father de Kern. Sébastien's life is ruined and he is unable to hold down a job or make friends. He cannot even build a relationship with Marguerite, his childhood sweetheart. Aged twenty one, Sébastien is absurdely killed during the 1870 Franco-Prussian War, his body being carried from the battlefield by Bolorec.
In the mid-1920s, a young Danny Fisher and his family move in to a new house in a Brooklyn suburb. Within a few years, however, the Great Depression hits and Danny is forced to use his one talent, boxing, as a means of supporting his family. After a few years, the family have lost their house and are living in a mean apartment in the City. Danny continues to box, much against his father's wish, and dates a young Italian Catholic girl, much to the chagrin of his mother. Danny's boxing skills attract the attention of hoodlums, and he is offered a large sum of money to throw the Golden Gloves championship, a fight he could win easily and which would bring him professional fame as well as, he hopes, his father's acceptance. Danny accepts the bribe but beats his opponent. After going on the run for a two years in Coney Island, he returns to marry his sweetheart. Their early married life is marred by the death of their first born child in poverty. Danny seeks out his former manager and goes into business with him as a black marketeer. This activity brings him into contact with the very criminals he previously cheated. The story concludes with Danny's death in counterpoint to arrival of new life.
Jean Chabot and René Delfrosse plan to hide in the cellar and rob the till at the Liege nightclub, Gai-Moulin. After the nightclub closes for the night, they venture out of the cellar and stumble on the body of a Greek man. Frightened and in shock they run away from the nightclub. Jean, who has been taking money from the petty cash at the office where he works, needs to return the money before the books are closed and so René steals cash from the till at his uncle's chocolate shop. When they find that they are being followed, they decide to throw the money down the toilet but Jean is arrested before he can do that. He insists he is innocent but the stories of Adèle, a dancer at the Gai-Moulin, Victor, a waiter at the Gai-Moulin, and Gennaro, the proprietor all seem to point at the guilt of the two boys. However, some suspicion also centers on a Frenchman who arrived in Leige on the same train, was staying at the same hotel as the murdered man, and who was at the Gai-Moulin at the same time. Inspector Delvigne does not know what to think when Maigret makes a surprising appearance on the scene.
Chester W. Chester IV inherits a run-down mansion and millions in back taxes. In order to pay the taxes, he initially decides to auction off the mansion and its contents, including a massive computer (the Generalized Nonlinear Extrapolator, or "Genie"). However, while examining the mansion and the computer with his friend Case Mulvihill, he finds the computer can solve complex problems involving historical fact and display realistic images of them. He hits on the idea of using its capabilities to create an elaborate hoax ... a fake time machine. Accordingly, he asks the computer to show him "real, three-D, big as life dinosaurs and plenty of em - and how about a four-wall presentation?" The computer asks if it should employ a method of doing so that "is a purely theoretical approach, which might prove simpler, if feasible, and would perhaps provide total verisimilitude..." Chester tells the computer to "go to it" and the computer does. However, the computer has managed to actually transport the two through time, and on their second trip back, before they realize that they actually do have a time machine, they make the mistake of leaving their arrival area, and become trapped in the past. Even when they manage to return to the present, their actions in the past have altered it completely, but they are able to use the computer to (perhaps, more or less) restore everything to the way it was.
Blue van Meer is the film-obsessed, erudite teenager whose head is filled with a witty pop culture lexicon, in contrast to most-90210-watching teenagers. She is the daughter of itinerant and arrogant academic Gareth van Meer, who, after the death of his amateur lepidopteran-catching wife (and Blue's mother), never manages to stay at a college for more than a semester. During Blue's senior year, however, they settle in the sleepy town of Stockton, North Carolina. She starts to attend the St. Gallway School and befriends a group of popular, rich, and ultra-mysterious teenagers called the Bluebloods: murky and rebellious Milton; flamboyant and flaming Nigel; ice-queen and pterodactyl Jade, free-loving, flower-child Leulah, and the dreamy Charles. The Bluebloods are also close friends with the film studies teacher at St. Gallway, Hannah Schneider, a perplexing woman who intrigues Blue more than she should. A drowning, a series of unfortunate events, and Hannah's own eventual death on a camping trip lead Blue to question everything she believes in.
The book is a compilation of 10 short stories from various authors taking place in the fictional world of Krynn: #"Seven Hymns of the Dragon" by Michael Williams. The tale is a narrative poem. #"The Final Touch" by Michael and Teri Williams. This is a tale written about the druidess L'Indasha who found an egg of a dragon. #"Night of Falling Stars" by Nancy Varian Berberick. #"Honor Is All" by Mickey Zucker Reichert. #"Easy Pickings" by Douglas Niles. #"A Dragon to the Core" by Roger E. Moore. #"Dragon Breath" by Nick O'Donohoe. #"Fool's Gold" by Jeff Grubb. #"Scourge of the Wicked Kendragon" by Janet Pack. #"And Baby Makes Three" by Amy Stout. #"The First Dragonarmy Bridging Company" by Don Perrin. #"The Middle of Nowhere" by Dan Harnden. #"Kaz and the Dragon's Children" by Richard A. Knaak. #"Into the Light" by Linda P. Baker. #"The Best" by Margaret Weis.This is a tale written in first person perspective by man who hire a couple of best adventures, everyone of them in his skill, to kill a dragon. #"The Hunt" by Kevin Stein.
Trelawny of the 'Wells tells the story of Rose Trelawny, a popular star of melodrama plays at the Barridge Wells Theatre (a thinly disguised Sadler's Wells Theatre). Rose gives up the stage when she decides to marry her sweetheart, Arthur Gower, in order to please his conservative family. She finds life with Arthur's grandfather and great-aunt, Sir William and Lady Tralfagar, unbearably dull and they detest her loud and unrestrained personality. Rose runs back to the theatre, abandoning Arthur. But her experience of the 'real world' has killed her talent for melodrama, and she cannot recapture the liveliness that had made her a star. Meanwhile, Arthur has secretly run away to become an actor at the Bristol Old Vic. The problem is solved when Rose encounters Sir William again, and she reawakens his memory of admiring the great actor Edmund Kean as a young man. Sir William offers to help Rose's friend Tom Wrench, an aspiring playwright who dreams of staging plays in a more realist style than the melodramas that dominate the stage. Tom stages the play with Rose as the star, and her newfound seriousness fits his style perfectly. Tom secretly arranges for Arthur to play the leading male role, and the lovers are reunited on stage.
The story starts when Ryan, Chelle and Josh stranded without their bus fare home. Josh climbs into an old wishing well and retrieves some blackened coins. The next day, odd things begin to happen. Ryan sees a watery face in the mirror, and finds white lumps on his hands. Light bulbs explode in Josh's house, and Chelle's babbling becomes shockingly strange. Ryan has a vision of the well witch, and understands from her gargled words that, because they took the coins, they are now in her service. She has given each of them powers so that they can find other wishers, discover their wishes and help grant them. She also gives him the name of a nearby village. In the village, they realize that Chelle is speaking aloud the thoughts of a tea-shop man, Will Wurthers. They guess that he wished for a Harley-Davidson and persuade him to enter a competition to win ohe fete where the winner of the motorcycle is to be announced, they hear the thoughts of an unhappy mime who wishes (they think) for fame. In their attempt to grant his wish they inadvertently cause a riot at the fete. Then they learn that Will has been badly injured in an accident. When Chelle overhears the thoughts of someone wishing for bloody revenge she gets frightened, and she and Ryan decide they should not grant any more wishes. Josh, however, is determined to hang on to his increasing power over all machines, metals and electronic devices.
After her husband, Elton Trueblood, abandons her after she refuses an abortion, Branwyn Beerman gives birth to her child, whom she later names Thomas. Thomas is born with a hole in his lung, and is given a dire prognosis by the hospital's head paediatrician. While Thomas is in the hospital, she falls in love with a white heart surgeon, Dr. Minas Nolan, whose wife had died due to complications giving birth to an abnormally large and strong "Nordic Adonis" named Eric. Branwyn takes Thomas home in defiance of the hospital, but Thomas survives, living with Eric under one roof, and, while different in every respect, they build a strong friendship as children. They are both cared for by a Vietnamese nanny, Ahn. Their pleasant state of affairs takes a turn for the worse after Elton returns. Branwyn perishes soon after, leaving Thomas in Elton's hands due to her unmarried status. While Thomas is forced to eke out an existence in the slums, dealing drugs and being sent to jail, Eric goes to college and has no trouble attracting women. However, Eric is also faced with problems as he confronts the consequences of his actions. After years apart, they later reunite and solve their problems together.
The Tragedy tells the story of Mariam, a member of the Hasmonean dynasty and the second wife of Herod the Great, king of Palestine 39-4 B.C. When the play opens, in 29 B.C., Herod is thought dead at the hand of Octavian (later Caesar Augustus), and Mariam faces her ambivalent feelings about her husband; Herod had loved her, but had also murdered her grandfather and brother. In Act IV, however, Herod returns, dispelling the false report of his death. Herod's immoral and "villain" sister Salome I falsely convinces Herod his wife has been unfaithful in his absence which results in him ordering Mariam's execution. Though Mariam is the title character and the play's moral center, her part in the play amounts to only about 10% of the whole; Cary uses a set of secondary characters to provide a multi-vocal portrayal of Herod's court and Jewish society under his tyranny. The Chorus, in its representation of the patriarchal ideals of femininity, offers an opportunity to interrogate these values, in accordance with the political impetus of the closet drama. The ending of the play is consistent with the tyranny of both its fictional Herod and the actual historical figure: six characters die, including Mariam. The play also explores the themes of divorce and female agency through the characters of both Mariam and Salome. The play has been edited and published in several modern editions, and has acquired a large and growing body of critical and scholarly commentary.
The collection tells the story of a merchant family from a small Galician town which resembles the writer's home town, Drohobycz, in many respects. The story abounds in mythical elements, introduced by means of the visionary and dreamlike literary depiction (e.g. frequently occurring motif of labyrinth), characteristic of the writer. It is thus mythologized reality, processed by the imagination, artistically distorted and enriched by all possible references and allusions to other literary works, to great myths, to other, more exotic domains of reality. One of the most significant characters in the work is the Father, who is not only the head of the family, a merchant running a textile shop in the marketplace, but also a mad experimenter endowed with superhuman abilities, a demiurge living between life and death, between the world of the real and the imaginary. Despite the literary fascination with the character of the Father displayed by Schulz, it is Józef who he renders the protagonist, as well as the narrator of the work. In the character of this young boy, eagerly discovering the world that surrounds him, many of Schulz's own traits are clearly visible.
The book starts out with Celandine running away from the boarding school she was sent to by her parents to ‘pound all of the nonsense out of her’. It is her third escape attempt, after being sent back twice by her parents. She boards a train and meets a crippled soldier who appears to be no older than her brother Freddy, who died as a volunteer soldier. She aids him in lighting his cigarette. She also meets a nurse who upon Celandine's departure from their company exclaims “Do you know that extraordinary looking girl?” She returns to her home farm but does not enter not wishing for an angry confrontation with her father. She climbs the hill and hoots; a signal apparently. A small child Celandine calls Fin appears out of nowhere and jumps her; smothering her with love and affection, begging for cake. This is where the back-story begins. Celandine was 10 when she first saw the “little people”. She was resting under a tree where Fin finds her, soon followed by his Father/Guardian. Upon her return to her normal surroundings no one except Freddy believes her when she tells them what she saw. [The above comprises the first 1½ chapters.]
During a hiking holiday after her acquittal on murder charges in Strong Poison, Harriet Vane discovers the body of a man, with his throat cut and the blood still liquid, on an isolated rock on the shore. There are no footprints in the sand other than the man's and Harriet's. She takes photos and preserves some evidence, but the corpse is washed away before she can fetch help. Lord Peter arrives, and he and Harriet make investigations alongside the police. The dead man, Paul Alexis, a professional dancing partner at the local hotel, was of Russian extraction and engaged to a rich older widow. The death has been made to look like suicide, but Wimsey and Harriet discover that he was the victim of an ingenious and complex murder plot. The romantic Alexis believed himself a descendant of Russian royalty, and the widow's rather stupid son, appalled at the prospect of his mother's remarriage to a gigolo and the loss of his inheritance, conspired with a friend and his wife to play on Alexis's fantasies. Convinced that he was being called to return to Russia in triumph as the rightful Tsar, Alexis was lured to the rock and murdered by the son, who rode a horse along the beach through the incoming tide to avoid leaving tracks, whilst his friends supplied his alibi. The death was intended to look like suicide. However, Alexis suffers from haemophilia, and his unclotted blood leads to confusion over the time of death, which eventually
A bear settles down for his long winter nap, and while he sleeps the progress of man continues. He wakes up to find himself in the middle of an industrial complex. He then gets mistaken by the foreman for a worker and is told to get to work. To this he responds, "But I'm not a man, I'm a bear". He is then taken to each of his successive bosses, who try to convince him that he is just a "silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat", reaching all the way up to an elderly president of the factory who concludes he cannot be a bear because "all bears live in the zoo". The bear is taken to the zoo, hoping to gain support from his own species, but even the zoo bears claim he is not a bear, because if he was "he'd be behind bars like us". Eventually he concludes that he must be a "silly man", and works hard at the factory to the satisfaction of the foreman and the other bosses. However, winter comes again, and he feels cold. He wishes he knew what a "silly man" would do to get warm. But in the end he finds a cave and enters, feeling comfortable and bear-like once more. As the bear is sleeping, he reflects on the events of the year, as the narrator concludes that because all the bosses and even the zoo bears disbelieved he was a bear, did not
On a routine trip to Mars, the passenger liner Johannes Kepler is hit by a meteorite, killing the captain and almost all the senior members of the crew and resulting in the loss of much of the ship's breathable air. Lieutenant Donald Chase, a junior medical officer, finds himself the highest-ranked surviving crew member and has to take over the running of the ship. He is helped by Chief Petty Officer Kurikka, who is familiar with the technical aspects; the Mexican scientist Dr Ugalde, a passenger whose mathematical genius enables the new crew to navigate the ship; and various others. Chase solves the air shortage by using the oxygen content of some of the ship's water. Once the situation has stabilised, a passenger, General Mathew Briggs, who had criticised Chase's methods, overthrows him by force with the apparent help of Ugalde. However, it turns out that Ugalde had only pretended to shift his loyalties and Briggs is faced down by Kurikka, defeated and imprisoned. The ship's occupants are also struck by a deadly plague carried by the meteorite, but Chase and his medical colleagues eventually find a cure, although Chase collapses from disease and exhaustion. Recovering in hospital after the ship has docked safely, he is presented with a captain's cap by his crew.
The Republic is decaying, even under the leadership of Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, who was elected to save the galaxy from collapsing under the forces of discontent. On the tiny but strategic planet of Ansion, a powerful faction is on the verge of joining the growing Separatist movement. The urban dwellers wish to expand into the prairies outside their cities - the ancestral territory of the fierce, independent Ansion nomads. If their demands are not met, they will secede - an act that could jump-start a chain reaction of withdrawal and rebellion by other worlds of the Republic. At the Chancellor's request, the Jedi Council sends Kenobi and fellow Jedi Luminara Unduli to resolve the conflict and negotiate with the elusive nomads. Undaunted, Kenobi and Unduli, along with their Padawans Skywalker and Barriss Offee, set out across the wilderness. Many perils lie waiting to trap them. The Jedi will have to fulfill near-impossible tasks, befriend wary strangers, and influence two great armies to complete their quest, stalked all the while by an enemy sworn to see the negotiations collapse and the mission fail.
Raging at the escape of the StarSon, Qeteb has the Hawkchilds scour the remains of Tencendor. Although they don't immediately find Sanctuary, a Hawkchild does find and return the wooden bowl given to Faraday by the Mother, though they do not know how to use it. Unaware of this oversight, the Mother, Ur, and the Horned Ones wait in the Sacred Groves, slowly dying. meanwhile, at sanctuary many are discontented and impatient, finding it more of a prison then a sanctuary. Axis walks to the bridge and begins talking to it, though halfway through it begins screaming and it dies, and Axis nearly falls into the chasm below until Drago saves him, and though Axis notices a some sort of power in him, he still stubbornly refuses to forgive him for Caelum's death, thinking he is still the malevolent man he was when he was a baby, who always wanted Caelum's inheritance. Drago then talks to Azhure, who also recognises he has some sort of power, and on departure recognises him as Dragonstar, not Drago
War between Earth and insectoid-dominated Alpha III ended over a decade ago. (According to the novel, "Alphane" refers to the nearest star to our own system, Alpha Centauri). Some years after the end of hostilities, Earth intends to secure its now independent colony in the Alphane system, Alpha III M2. As a former satellite-based global psychiatric institution for colonists on other Alphane system worlds unable to cope with the stresses of colonisation, the inhabitants of Alpha III M2 have lived peacefully for years. But, under the pretence of a medical mission, Earth intends to take their colony back. Against this background, Chuck Rittersdorf and his wife Mary are separating. Although they think they are going their separate ways, they soon find themselves together again on Alpha III M2. Mary travels there through government work, Chuck sees it as a chance to kill Mary using his remote control simulacrum. Along the way he is guided by his Ganymedean slime mold neighbour Lord Running Clam and Mary finds herself manipulated by the Alphane sympathiser, comedian Bunny Hentman.
Overhearing a conversation in a restaurant between Wimsey and his friend Parker, a doctor tells the two of a death that affected his career. A terminal cancer patient, old and wealthy, died unexpectedly early; the doctor provoked outrage when he queried the cause, and local opinion forced him eventually to move away. Wimsey is moved to investigate. Wimsey discovers that the patient's great-niece - popular locally - had nursed her through her illness and was the intended heiress. The patient had a horror of contemplating death, however, and refused to listen to entreaties that she must make a will to be sure that her fortune would pass to her great-niece as she wished. A change in the law was imminent and meant that a great-niece would no longer inherit automatically and the estate would probably pass to the Crown. Killing her great-aunt before the legislation came in allowed the niece to secure the fortune intended for her. When Wimsey begins investigating, using the recurring character Miss Climpson as his intelligence agent, the great-niece is provoked into covering her trail. She kills a former servant, fakes a kidnap-murder and tries to frame a distant relative with an interest in the Dawson estate, and almost kills Miss Climpson. Lord Peter exposes the great-niece's motive and methods, including the false identity she has established in London, and she is eventually arrested and imprisoned on remand, where she commits suicide. The doctor from whom Lord Peter originally heard the anecdote has moved on and
Frensic and Futtle is a small and successful literary agency. But following a successful court case by a woman who claimed to have been libeled by one of their authors, the agency rapidly loses business. One day, a manuscript for a book called Pause O Men for the Virgin arrives at the agency, together with a note from the author's solicitor, saying that the author wishes to remain anonymous and that the agency has carte blanche on how it deals with the book. The book turns out to deal with the love affair between an 80-year old woman and a 17-year old youth. The populist American publisher Hutchmeyer agrees to sign a deal to publish the book in the United States for $2 million, providing the author carries out a promotional tour of the country. Sonia and Frensic decide to use aspiring but unpublished author Peter Piper to stand in for the anonymous author. But when Piper receives a proof copy of Pause from the publisher by mistake, it takes a certain amount of persuasion and arm-twisting from Sonia Futtle to convince Piper to travel to America.
Max is an eight-year-old boy whose family has just moved into an old farmhouse in Yorkshire. He discovers some old toy soldiers in the attic and is surprised and delighted to find that they come to life. The soldiers, known as the Twelves, or the Young Men, have different personalities; they are brave, intelligent and very independent, not to mention argumentative. They adopt Max as one of their Genii, or protective spirits, and he begins to spend most of his time watching and thinking about them. He learns from the local parson that they once belonged to the Brontës, who wrote stories about their adventures. When his older sister Jane discovers the secret, she becomes as keen on the soldiers as Max is. The local newspaper publishes a letter about the Brontë wooden soldiers, from an American professor offering £5,000 (at the time a small fortune) to anyone who finds them. Max and Jane's older brother Philip believes the Morley soldiers may be the Brontë ones, and impulsively writes to the professor about them — only to deeply regret his act when he too discovers the truth. The soldiers learn that they are in danger of being taken to America and disappear in the night. The children have some anxious moments before they discover that the soldiers have determined to return to their original home in Haworth, now a museum dedicated to the Brontës. Their march across the countryside is fraught with peril, but they finally reach safe haven with
This third novel of Updike's Rabbit series examines the life of Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom, a one-time high school basketball star, who has reached a paunchy middle-age without relocating from Brewer, Pennsylvania, the poor, fictional city of his birth. Harry and Janice, his wife of twenty-two years, live comfortably, having inherited her late father's Toyota dealership. He is indeed rich, but Harry's persistent problems &mdash; his wife's drinking, his troubled son's schemes, his libido, and spectres from his past &mdash; complicate life. Having achieved a lifestyle that would have embarrassed his working-class parents, Harry is not greedy, but neither is he ever quite satisfied. Harry has become somewhat enamored of a country-club friend's young wife. He also has to deal with the indecision and irresponsibility of Nelson, his son, who is a student at Kent State University. Throughout the book, Harry wonders about his former lover Ruth, and whether she had ever given birth to their child.
Frank Pollard wakes up in an alley at night, filled with confusion and fear. He knows nothing but his name, and that he must escape fast, or else he will be killed. Pursued by a mysterious assailant, Frank barely escapes with his life. Every time he goes to sleep, he wakes up to find evidence of bizarre nighttime travels which he cannot remember. Afraid of his own actions, Frank enlists the help of husband-wife security team, Bobby and Julie Dakota. At first, the case merely seems absurd, but as they track deeper into the life and past of the mysterious Frank Pollard, the Dakotas uncover an increasingly bizarre and dangerous world threatened by a madman who thirsts for blood. It is ultimately revealed that Frank Pollard is the brother to the mysterious madman as well as twin sisters. They were born from a mother who was the product of an incestuous relationship. Her father was a hallucinogenic drug-abuser and her mother was his sister. She is a hermaphrodite and impregnated herself with her own seed. As a result of this compounded inbreeding, Frank and his siblings developed unusual psychic abilities. Frank, wanting a normal life, tries to escape from his family while being pursued by his brother who seeks to either bring him back or kill him, and nothing will stand in his way. After a message from Julie's younger brother, who has Down Syndrome and possesses minor psychic ability himself, Bobby, Julie, Frank and his family begin speeding into
The small ocean town of Sealey Head has long been haunted by a phantom bell that tolls as evening falls. The sound is so common that many of the town's inhabitants don't even notice it, let alone questions its existence. Ridley Dow, a scholar from the city, comes to investigate the mystery, and sets up residence at the old inn owned by a young man named Judd and his ailing father. To aid Ridley, Judd enlists the help of his friend and love-interest Gwyneth, a young woman who writes her own stories to explain the bell. On the other side of town is the ancient manor Aislinn House, whose owner, Lady Eglantine, lies dying. Emma, a servant in the house, is able to open doors that lead not into another room, but into another world. On the other side of Aislinn House's doors is castle where the princess Ysabo moves through her daily rituals, tasks that Ysabo hates and doesn't understand, but cannot question. While Emma and Ysabo are able to speak to one another, neither has ever tried to cross into the other's realm. When Lady Eglantine's heir Miranda Beryl comes to Aislinn House, Sealey Head's secrets begin to reveal themselves, sometimes with dangerous consequences. Miranda brings to Sealey Head an entourage of friends from the city, as well as a strange assistant. As the town gets pulled deeper into the strange magic that Ridley, Judd, Gwyneth, and Emma uncover, Ridley breaches the border between Aislinn House and Ysabo's
A seemingly shy and humble country boy named Luther Sellers is discovered to have a magnificent voice and mesmerizing stage presence. He is given the stage name Stag Preston and after a short time on the "Chittlin' Circuit" becomes a major rockabilly music star under the tutelage of a manager who seems to be patterned after Elvis Presley's manager, "Colonel" Tom Parker. Over time Luther's success goes to his head and his "Aw, shucks..." demeanor simply becomes a gimmick used to keep his fans, who he secretly despises, believing that he hasn't really left his country roots and humble upbringing. In reality Stag lives up to his stage name, using his fame and seductive powers to lure any woman he can into his bed, leaving broken hearts and scandals everywhere he goes. The latter are all tidied up by his money-grubbing manager, who doesn't want anything to taint his cash cow. Meanwhile, Stag's growing megalomania eventually has him treating everyone around him like dirt and becoming harder and harder to work with. Eventually he is entangled in a scandal that takes all their power to cover up, and sets into motion the events leading to Stag's downfall.
A quiet Long Island fishing community is suddenly struck with terror when an amphibious beast created by a mad Nazi scientist is unleashed on the town. Dr. Simon Chase, a struggling man who leaves his wife and child to finish school at a Marine Biology science institute sees his son, Max for the first time in twelve years. A crew tracking a pregnant Great White (ironically named "Jaws") spot a porpoise with a claw gash in its tail and see massive kills of sea life; when they then observe the same claw marks on Jaws herself, Chase knows that there must be something big out there to attack a great white. Dr. Amanda Macy, who studies whales using sea lions with strapped-on video cameras, allows herself to actually see the creature firsthand. Macy's camera gets a shot of a clawed hand attacking a fish. After additional horrific and bloody encounters at sea, the beast comes ashore, endangering the entire town. Now it's up to Chase to try and stop the creature before it kills off the entire town, and eventually move on...
The Color of Crime provides an overview of race, crime, and law, beginning with a discussion of slavery. Russell-Brown writes that crime and young black men have become synonymous in the American mind, giving rise to the "criminalblackman" stereotype. The book popularised the term "racial hoax", which Russell-Brown defines as occurring when someone fabricates a crime and blames it on another person because of their race or when an actual crime has been committed and the perpetrator falsely blames someone because of their race. It gives the cases of Susan Smith, Jesse Anderson, and Charles Stuart as examples of racial hoaxes. She proposes six principles to achieve fairness in the criminal justice system: # Criminal penalties apply to everyone, regardless of the race of the offender. # Criminal penalties apply to everyone, regardless of the race of the victim. # The race of the offender is not relevant in determining whether his actions constitute a crime. The offender's actions would have been considered criminal, even if he were another race. # The race of the victim is not relevant in determining whether the offender's action constitutes a crime. # The offender's racial pedigree (e.g., "degree of Blackness") is not used to determine punishment. # There are checks and balances that mitigate against racial bias within the legal system.
Frederica Merriville has long been in charge of her younger siblings. Since her parents' death, she has taken it upon herself to make sure that her beautiful sister Charis is well married, whilst believing herself to be on the shelf. To further this end, she brings the family from their country home to London and introduces herself to a distant relation, the selfish and indolent Marquis of Alverstoke, asking him to sponsor her sister into "the ton" and the subsequent Season. The Marquis is initially reluctant but agrees to sponsor the Merriville ladies out of mischief, mostly to annoy his sister Louisa who had been demanding similar assistance to launch her own daughter into society. At their combined debut ball, Alverstoke's homely niece is easily outshone by Charis' beauty. The Merrivilles are liked by everyone for their easy and engaging manners and good breeding. Charis is admired by many young men but she falls for the Marquis's slow-witted and handsome cousin Endymion Dauntry. Frederica also acquires her own share of admirers, including (to his own astonishment) Alverstoke himself. Alverstoke is fascinated by her frank and open manners, unlike the society manners of London's fashionable ladies. He is also delighted by the high spirits of the two youngest Merrivilles, her brothers Felix and Jessamy, and comes to like them for their own sakes. He slowly but deeply falls in love with Frederica and is ready to do anything for her sake.
Bianca Barrett, the protagonist and daughter of a Welsh Surveyor and his Palestinian wife, becomes an "ambitious and mercenary" social climber and double murderess. Charming and well educated, Bianca marries four times and advances in wealth and social influence. With Bernardo, her first husband, Bianca has three children; they lose their son in a tragic car accident. After a divorce, she marries the rich Fredie whose family owns the Piedraplata commercial empire. Before it comes to a divorce, the second husband is shot and killed by a hitman who makes it look like a suicide. The killing is arranged by her lover, Phillipe Mahfud, and Bianca becomes the financial beneficiary. After a brief marriage to husband number three, - she had married him only to make Mahfud jealous-, she lastly marries Mahfud, a superrich Iraqi businessman and banker. When their relationship sours, the banker dies with his nurse in a mysterious fire in his apartment in the tax haven of Andorra. Bianca's lawyers pay off the police and investigators, and the only justice that remains is in the court of public opinion.
Callista is set in the mid-3rd century in the city of Sicca Veneria in the Roman province of Africa. It deals with the persecution of the Christians community under Emperor Decius. The main character of the novel is Callista, a young and beautiful Greek girl, who has just arrived from Greece with her brother Aristo. She is a gifted young woman, yet she is unhappy with her life. Another main character is the troubled young Christian Agellius, who wants to marry Callista. He is torn between his faith and his brother (Juba), his mother Gurta, a pagan witch, and his pagan uncle Jucundus, who all want to bring him away from the Christian faith. Agellius soon meets the mysterious Christian priest Caecilius (later identified as St. Cyprian of Carthage), who becomes a father figure for him and strengthens his faith again. After a terrible plague of locusts, popular rage against Christians breaks out and persecution starts once again. Agellius has to flee from the surroundings of Sicca Veneria. At the same time, Callista sees herself drawn more and more strongly to Christianity. When she is compelled to offer incense to the pagan gods, she has to make a dramatic choice, which finally leads her into the Catholic Church and then to martyrdom.
For 13 years, Jody Gibson owned and operated an exclusive global escort service under the name "Super Madam Sasha", while also leading a double life on radio and television as a recording artist known as "Babydol". The book describes Gibson's life as a "Super Madam" in Hollywood, as well as the challenges of simultaneously pursuing a career as a madam and a recording artist. Gibson evades law enforcement, but then is tried and convicted in a high profile trial and sent to prison. Gibson claims that celebrities such as Bruce Willis, Ben Affleck, Tommy Lasorda, CEOs and politicians used her service. She includes actual court data from her "Black Book", which was introduced as evidence at trial by law enforcement and used to convict her, and to date has never been sued over her use of that data. Gibson has appeared on television shows many times, including on The Howard Stern Show, Larry King Live, John Gibson's "The Big Story", Geraldo Rivera, Access Hollywood, Showbiz Tonight, The Tyra Banks Show, Court TV's "Hollywood Heat", and Glenn Beck. The book is now in development as a feature film about her life.
The Hardy Boys come to France for a vacation. When the brothers spot The Gray Man in Manhattan, they learn about an investigation he is working on regarding a terrorist organization in France. While the Gray Man does not want the brothers involved because they are too young and the case is too dangerous, the Hardys secretly work to get themselves in the center of the investigation and soon they find themselves undercover in France as a couple of gun dealers who are into the punk rock scene, complete with dyed hair and grungy clothes. They get caught up in a company called Renyard and Company, which secretly sells guns and other illegal things to people. They are almost killed in a machine when a lady known as Denise helps them escape. The book has an interesting storyline in which almost everybody is betraying each other - Renyard and Company, Denise and many other people. The Hardy Boys are also captured by the French special police known as the Sûreté. They eventually escape by beating everybody up. Soon when the book is about to end, they are chased by the Chairman of Renyard & Company and his other partners. The people try to kill them but Denise saves them at the right moment. The case is then solved by the Hardy Boys and they return back to USA.
Beautiful film star Eve Eden's fiancé Hector Matthews died in a strange accident while the couple was visiting Adolf Hitler at Berchtesgaden in 1939. Although he had no reason to commit suicide, he apparently flung himself off a high balcony to die hundreds of feet below—and no one was near him at the time, as the witnesses Gerald Hathaway and Paula Catford say. Years later, Eve is married to actor Desmond Ferrier and living in Geneva. Brian Innes, a painter who lives in Geneva too, is asked by his old school friend DeForrest Page to warn his daughter Audrey against continuing to associate with Eve. When Eve Ferrier appears at the Hotel du Rhône, where Innes had been dining with Sir Gerald Hathaway, she proves to be carrying a perfume bottle filled with oil of vitriol, apparently to her own surprise. The next day, when Innes is called to Eve Ferrier's villa by a desperate Audrey, he arrives in time to see Eve fall to her death from a high balcony—and no one was near her at the time. It takes the investigative genius of Gideon Fell to penetrate the ingenious murder method and reveal the criminal.
As with Wolfe's other novels, A Man In Full features a number of point-of-view characters. These include Charles "Cap'm Charlie" Croker, a real estate mogul and member of Atlanta's high society who is suddenly facing bankruptcy; Martha Croker, his first wife, trying to maintain her social standing without her husband; Ray Peepgass, who is trying to illegally capitalize on Croker's fall; Roger "Too White" White II, a prominent black lawyer; and Conrad Hensley, a young man in prison who discovers Stoic philosophy. The novel begins with the characters learning of the rumored rape of a young white heiress by a black superstar athlete, Fareek "The Canon" Fanon. Though the incident itself is unimportant to the lives of the characters, the potential for the rumor to incite race riots in metropolitan Atlanta has a profound effect on all of their lives. Local politics and business interests become involved, including the president of the bank to which Croker is indebted, Roger Too White's former fraternity brother (now Mayor of Atlanta), and the entirety of 'respectable' Atlanta society. A Man In Full is written much in the style of Wolfe's other fictions, such as Bonfire of the Vanities and I Am Charlotte Simmons.
The novel begins when Henry Pulling, a conventional and uncharming bank manager who has taken early retirement, meets his septuagenarian Aunt Augusta for the first time in over fifty years at his mother's funeral. Despite having little in common, they form a bond. Henry finds himself drawn into Aunt Augusta's world of travel, adventure, romance and absence of bigotry. He travels first with her to Brighton, where he meets one of his aunt's old acquaintances, and gains an insight into one of her many past lives. Here a psychic foreshadows that he will have many travels in the near future. This prediction inevitably becomes true as Henry is pulled further and further into his aunt's lifestyle, and delves deeper into her past. Their voyages take them from Paris to Istanbul on the Orient Express, and as the journey unfolds, so do the stories of Aunt Augusta, painting the picture of a woman for whom love has been the defining feature of her life. Henry returns to his quiet retirement, but tending his garden no longer holds the same allure. When he receives a letter from his aunt, he finally gives up his old life to join her and the love of her life in South America, and to marry a girl decades younger than himself. As his travels progress it becomes clear to Henry that the woman he had been raised to believe was his mother was in fact his aunt. His real mother is Augusta, and her reconnection with
Blart, after the imprisonment of Zoltab, is living the good life on his own pig farm. But a wily merchant named Uther has conned him out of everything he owns and his freedom by a game of cards called "Muggins". To play Muggins, the dealer simply picks two cards from the deck, hands one to the non-dealer and keeps one himself. Each player turns over their cards. If the cards were the same, say, a king and a king, then the dealer wins. If the cards are different, say, a three and a five, then the non-dealer wins. Even Blart has grasped it that the chances of the non-dealer winning is drastically in his favour and resolves to play the game with Uther to make money. However, no sooner than Blart bets stakes in the game of Muggins than Uther begins to win every round. But then quite out of the blue, Capablanca arrives to tell him that Blart and the other questors are wanted, dead or alive - or both. They are wanted because it is believed that they are minions of Zoltab, even though it was them that imprisoned him. So Blart, Capablanca and Uther (who must help them as he is wanted for associating with Blart) must find and warn the other questors. After gathering the original company (with the exception of the deceased dwarf Tungsten) they must travel to where Capablanca has imprisoned Zoltab, so as to prove their innocence. However, Capablanca has difficulty remembering where
The book is made up of two narrative streams, interwoven in alternating chapters. The numbers of the chapters indicate which stream they belong to: one stream is numbered forward in words (One, Two ...), while the other is numbered in reverse with Roman numerals (XIII, XII ...). The story told by the former moves forward chronologically (as the numbers suggest) and tells a self-contained story, while in the latter is written in reverse chronology with each chapter successively earlier in Zakalwe's life. Further complicating this structure is a prologue and epilogue set shortly after the events of the main narrative, and many flashbacks within the chapters. The forward-moving stream of the novel deals with the attempts of Diziet Sma and a drone named Skaffen-Amtiskaw to re-enlist Zakalwe for another "job", the task itself and the payment that Zakalwe wishes for it. The backward-moving stream describes earlier "jobs" that Zakalwe has performed for the Culture, ultimately returning to his pre-Culture career as a general on his homeworld. It transpires that the payment he requires from Sma relates to an incident from his earlier life.
Gracie knows when bad things are about to happen. Or sometimes when they have already happened. She begged her mother not to leave for a trip that ended with her dying when her car was hit by a truck delivering oranges, and now, living in Washington with her aunt Shay, Gracie has visions that involve her best friend Emily. Gracie would prefer that her psychic powers did not exist, but when Emily disappears, she has to use every vision she gets as a clue to solving the mystery. The problem with Gracie's visions is that she does not know exactly what she is seeing. Sometimes she sees the past, sometimes the present, and sometimes she misinterprets her visions completely. Assisted by her cousin Diego, Gracie follows her visions in hopes of finding Emily. After a few false starts and a little research, she finds Emily's trail and is taken captive by Emily's kidnapper. Trapped in a guarded and gloomy house, Gracie begins to see the dark childhood of her kidnapper and his kins in unstoppable visions, the kidnapper is a madman who regrets not saving his ill sister Nell. This leads to the house being set ablaze by his enraged father and most of his brothers and sisters are killed in the fire including his dear sister Lizbet. This disillusioned madman wants to end this properly this time and so plans to die with his foster 'family'.
In Kodo the Tyrant, Spirou and Fantasio are in Burma and try to enter the small close country, Catung, a dictatorship closed abroad. Thanks to a drunk pilot, John Madflying, they that point reach but are separate. Fantasio meets the inspector general of the Mafia, his quasi-double, who controls really Catung, and this one the nap arms with the fist to take its place, because the inspector for submission to taking his retirement. Fantasio thus joined the capital and takes a certain pleasure to ridicule Jataka Kodo, the dictator. Spirou, it, are found in company of the rebels of Ava Savati. Those learn thanks to the pigeon from Prabang, a mole infiltrated in the palate, that the inspector general and Kodo intend to go to inspect the warehouses of Kuor Lang, they will thus pass on the bridge of Pagor Tevat, that Savati decides to make jump. However, Kodo meets with its lieutenants Chop Suey and Matteo and also proposes to blow up the bridge in order to eliminate Fantasio, which imposes restrictions of its capacity to him. Little time after the departure of Savati, spirou discovers with horror the identity of the inspector general, but it is too late… <!--
Albert Angelo tells the story of Albert Albert, a substitute teacher who longs to be a professional architect. He has had to resort to teaching to make ends meet, as he is not an accomplished enough architect to make a living from it. Living in a flat in the Angel in London, he finds himself teaching in increasingly tougher schools, and part of the story concerns his struggle with difficult pupils in class, mirroring Albert's struggle with life in general. Through the reproduction of some of their essays, we also learn the pupils' opinions of Albert and their attitudes towards him, which are often hilarious. Albert devotes much thought to his ex-girlfriend Jenny, with whom he is still very much in love and who he feels betrayed him. He reminisces about her frequently. His friend Terry, whom he accompanies to late-night cafes, was also 'betrayed' by a woman, and their friendship is built upon this common experience. The story is at times humorous and at others incredibly serious. As is usual in a Johnson novel sexuality is openly and frankly discussed. Johnson's writing technique allows us to view Albert's character from many angles.
A fishing boat sinks in the English Channel in the middle of the night, and the evidence points to murder. Ex-Special Branch agent Dominic Elder comes out of retirement to help investigate the explosion of the boat, as it appears that his long-time obsession, a female assassin known as Witch, may be responsible. Using the boat to get to England from France, Witch left a subtle trail of clues to announce her arrival and to warn off Elder. But that is the least of Special Branch's worries, if Elder's well-honed intuition is correct. He has seen her work before and knows her to be a resourceful enemy, who always seems a step ahead of the authorities. With an imminent summit of world leaders to be held in London, Witch's target seems obvious. Young Michael Barclay's thoroughness leads him onto Witch's trail, with the help of his liaison in the French police, Dominique. Apart from her language help and guidance around Paris, Michael is sexually attracted to her. The team of detectives and MI5 agents, and the terrorist, play cat-and-mouse with each other in Scotland, England, France, and even briefly visit a former associate of Witch in prison in Germany.
Emily Windsnap is a girl who lives on the boat The King of the Sea with her mother Mary Penelope. She requests swimming lessons repeatedly until her mother, who is afraid of the water, allows it. After a few shocking incidents, Emily discovers she is half mermaid, half human. Her legs become a tail when she is immersed in water and become legs again when she leaves it. She meets another mermaid whose name is Shona, and they quickly become best friends. Together they discover that Emily's father is currently in the mer prison for marrying a human and that Mary is under a spell which makes her forget everything. The girls plan to save Emily's father, but do not know how. Later, Emily finds a chance to carry out her "daydream" plan and manages to drive their houseboat near the prison. Her mother follows and regains her memories of Jake Windsnap, her husband (Emily's father). They are caught by Neptune and brought to trial, where Emily manages to convince Neptune for the sake of their family's mutual love to let them go. Neptune releases the entire Windsnap family on one condition: they must live on a deserted island!
Pine Cove suffers a major crisis when the town psychiatrist, Val Riordan &mdash; who has been haphazardly issuing prescriptions instead of dealing with the real mental problems of her patients &mdash; suffers a sudden bout of guilt and substitutes all of her patients' anti-depressants with placebos. At this same time, by coincidence, human-generated environmental activity stirs a prehistoric sea-beast from its underwater keep to come ashore. In addition to its ability to change form, the beast exudes a pheromone that inspires uncontrollable lust among the residents of Pine Cove and also lures some of them as prey. After mistakenly trying to mate with a fuel truck (causing an explosion), the beast hides in a trailer park, attracting the curiosity of local crazy lady and former B-movie star Molly Michon, who builds a rapport with the injured beast. Meanwhile, Theophilus Crowe, the town constable, investigates a strange suicide, the activities of his corrupt boss, and his adversely affected marijuana habit. When the beast (whom Molly has named "Steve") starts eating residents of Pine Cove and interfering with Theo's boss's meth business, Molly (who has become romantically involved with the beast) and Theo band together to make possible the beast's safe escape and to take down the boss at the same time.
After being released from his time with Ta-Kumsaw, an Indian leader who taught Alvin the ways of Indian people, the young boy sets out to start his apprenticeship as a Smith in the town where he was born. While there he meets a young half-black boy by the name of Arthur Stuart, the son of a slave and a slave-owner who has been adopted by the owners of the local guesthouse. Another new friend comes in the form of Miss Margaret Larner, who he later discovers to be the "torch" who helped him to be born so many years ago, and with whom he has been strangely linked since that day. Eventually, Alvin is forced into helping Arthur to escape some slave-hunters, something that requires him to slightly change Arthur's DNA enough to prevent the hunters' knacks from identifying the runaway child. Alvin also creates a plow of living gold, which is bestowed with magical properties, as his journeyman piece to release himself from his apprenticeship as a Smith (and also as a Maker). The story ends with Alvin and Arthur leaving the town and returning to Alvin's home in the west.
In Forward the Foundation, Isaac Asimov continues the chronicles of the life of Hari Seldon, first begun in Prelude to Foundation. The story takes place on Trantor, and begins eight years after the events of Prelude to Foundation. It depicts how Seldon developed his theory of psychohistory from hypothetical concept to practical application in galactic events. Beginning during the latter years of the reign of Emperor Cleon I, Seldon's work brings him into the world of galactic politics, and takes him to the height of Imperial power as Cleon's First Minister, after the mysterious disappearance of his previous First Minister, Eto Demerzel (whom Seldon knows as R. Daneel Olivaw). Seldon becomes First Minister to the Emperor, but loses the position ten years later after the Emperor is assassinated. Gradually, Seldon loses all those who are close to him. Seldon's wife Dors is killed saving his life from an assassin. His adopted son Raych is killed in the Rebellion in Santanni; his daughter-in-law and second granddaughter are missing and never found. Yugo Amaryl dies early, brought on by the strain of his work. Except for his granddaughter Wanda, Seldon is alone. He eventually sends her off to start the Second Foundation. The Galactic Empire's decline accelerates during the later chapters, as does the decline of Seldon's physical health. At the same time, Seldon finally begins to unravel the secrets of psychohistory; he initiates a grand plan that will come to be known as the Seldon Plan, the road map for mankind's
The plot focuses on three key events that happen mostly simultaneously. The first is the occupation of Coruscant and the trouble the Empire left behind with its crippling bio-attack on the planet. The virus used in the attack is the Krytos virus, a biological weapon developed by General Evir Derricote and released under the orders of Imperial leader Ysanne Isard. Humans are apparently immune, while all other species are vulnerable. This, combined with Imperial Intelligence officer Kirtan Loor's terrorist activities while taking orders from the Palpatine Counterinsurgency Front, leaves Coruscant and the New Republic in a state of emergency. The second event is the treason trial of Rogue Squadron executive officer Tycho Celchu, who is suspected of murdering Rogue Squadron pilot Corran Horn, who was captured during the invasion. Finally, Corran Horn is being held prisoner in her Lusankya prison facility. His attempts to escape lead him to uncover the secret of Rogue Squadron's mole, and it becomes a race against time to save the innocent and reveal the true traitor.
Adrian Mole is 39 and a quarter. Unable to afford the mortgage on his riverside apartment, he has been forced to move into a semi-detached converted pigsty next door to his parents, George and Pauline. His ravishing wife Daisy loathes the countryside, longs for Dean Street and has yet to buy a pair of Wellingtons; they are both aware the passion has gone out of their marriage, but neither knows how to reignite the flame. To cap it all off, Adrian is leaving his bed numerous times a night to go to the lavatory and has other alarming symptoms, leading him to suspect prostate trouble. Meanwhile, his mother thinks that an appearance on the Jeremy Kyle show might solve the mystery of her daughter's paternity. Adrian also discovers that the assumption that he is George and Pauline's offspring might be a fallacy. To add to his misery,he is already impaired further with his prostate trouble. As Adrian's worries multiply, a phone call to his old flame Dr Pandora Braithwaite ignites memories of a shared passion and makes him wonder - is she the only one who can save him now?
Josef Gross (Andrew Gross in the Wilson translation), a director of an unnamed organization, receives a memorandum written in Ptydepe, a constructed language, about an audit. He finds out that Ptydepe was created to get rid of similarities between words, such as fox and box, and emotional connexions. He tries to get someone to translate the memorandum for him, and gradually becomes opposed to the use of Ptydepe. Gross finally finds a reluctant secretary named Maria (Alice in the Wilson translation) who explains that, while she can translate the memorandum, she does not yet have a permit to do so. The next day, his deputy Jan Ballas (Max Balas in the Wilson translation) takes over Gross's job. Gross becomes a "staff watcher", someone who spies on the workers of the unnamed organization. Meanwhile, Maria gets fired for translating Gross's memorandum. The last few Ptydepe learners in the organization give up learning. After a while, Ballas gives his job back to Gross. Ptydepe is replaced with another language, Chorukor, one with very extreme similarities between words so as to make learning it easier, but finally it is decided to get back to the mother language. The play ends up with most of the characters going to lunch.
The book begins in the city of Turku and follows Mikael along an adventure throughout Europe and the Mediterranean. The book depicts many actual historical events with a rich style, although Mikael's involvement in the events is fictitious. The historical events and millieus featured in the book include: *Denmark's conquest of Sweden, Stockholm bloodbath and eventually the downfall of king Christian II of Denmark. * Student life at the Sorbonne in Paris at this time. *Protestant reformation and related peasants' war in Germany, Luther and Müntzer themselves appearing as side characters. *Spanish monarch sending conquistadors to New World, Mikael almost made to join Pizarro's expedition. * A Witch-hunt conducted by the Inquisition in a small German town, claiming the life of an innocent girl. *Wars in 16th century Europe and expansion of Ottoman empire. *Plundering of Rome (Sack of Rome) during reign of Pope Clement VII The story is continued in The Wanderer, where the protagonist explores the Ottoman empire. it:L'avventuriero (romanzo) hu:Mikael fi:Mikael Karvajalka sv:Mikael Ludenfot
The story documents the emotional awakening of Norman Moonbloom, an isolated, apathetic man in his thirties who, having recently ended a career as 'perpetual student', is now reluctantly in the employ of his brother Irwin as a property agent. Irwin's tenants occupy a series of dilapidated apartments in some of the poorer areas of Manhattan, and Norman's life consists of attempting to collect their rent while constantly making them empty promises about much-needed repairs. At first, Moonbloom resolutely insulates himself against his troublesome tenants, with their incessant complaining and idiosyncratic ways. Little by little, however, his defenses begin crumbling as they talk to him, argue with him, and impart to him their secrets and hopes. These unaccustomed intimacies bring on a seismic shift in Norman's personality, eventually inspiring him to defy his brother (who wants the apartments left exactly as they are) by undertaking all the promised repairs himself. As he goes from apartment to apartment, painting, plastering, and further immersing himself in his tenants' lives, the meek little rent collector finally comes to life.
The story is told from the perspective of Afanasi Ziukin, the majordomo of Grand Duke George Alexandrovich. Erast Fandorin investigates the abduction of Grand Duke Mikhail, the four-year-old youngest son of George Alexandrovitch, by criminal mastermind "Doctor Lind" whom Fandorin has been pursuing for several years. Their initial confrontation is briefly described in the novella "Dream Valley" from the Jade Rosary Beads collection. This time, Lind demands the Orlov diamond, a prerequisite for the upcoming coronation, as a ransom. Nicholas II is portrayed as dependent on his uncles Cyril and Simeon, the Governor-General of Moscow. Akunin distorts the Romanov family relations somewhat. The three uncles of Nicolas II (sons of Alexander II) are semi-fictitious: *George Alexandrovich, named after George Alexandrovitch, Nicholas' younger brother, but probably based on Nicholas' real uncle Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich; however, historical Alexei had no legitimate issue *Simeon Alexandrovich, the Governor General of Moscow is based on Nicholas' real uncle Sergei Alexandrovich. *Cyril Alexandrovich is based on Nicholas' real uncle Vladimir Alexandrovich of Russia, and named after Cyril, Vladimir's son.
In the book, Nick meets Uncle Giles for tea at the Ufford Hotel and is introduced to the clairvoyant Mrs. Erdleigh who proceeds to tell their fortunes. Jenkins arranges to meet Members at the Ritz, but the appointment is kept by Quiggin who has replaced Members as secretary to novelist St John Clarke; Nick eventually dines with Peter & Mona Templer and Jean Duport and is invited for a weekend at the Templers' in Maidenhead. This house party sees the start of an affair with Jean. Quiggin is invited for Sunday, but has to leave due to concerns over his master. Mrs. Erdleigh is also there with Jimmy Stripling in tow, and presides over a seance. Later in spring 1933 Nick spends a day in encounters with Quiggin and Members including a demonstration led by St John Clarke, wheeled in his chair by Quiggin and Mona. There follow various further encounters with Jean and a visit to Foppa's restaurant. Summer 1933 sees Jenkins, Templer, Stringham and Widmerpool at the Le Bas dinner for Old Boys at the Ritz. Stringham arrives the worse for drink and Widmerpool makes an uninvited, boring and pompous speech, silenced only by Le Bas collapsing with a stroke. Widmerpool and Jenkins take the drunken Stringham home to bed. The book ends with intimations of an end to Nick's affair with Jean.
Praying for Power is divided into three main sections: In Part 1, "The Culture of Buddhism", Brook reviews the development of religious philosophy and politics and the new familiarity with, and openness toward, Buddhism, in what was a Confusianism-dominated society. In Part 2, "Monastic Patronage'", the author investigates the contributions of the new elite class of gentry, made in the form of "land donations; money and materials for building and renovation; exercise of social and political influence to forward and protect monastic interests; and 'literary patronage,' the composition of admiring poems and essays or the compilation and printing of an institutional history to elevate the prestige of a given monastery." In Part 3, "Patronage in Context", the author examines in detail patronage by the gentry in three distinct counties: one poor, "where Buddhist institutions were not well developed"; a second rich, where they flourished; and a third "in peculiar circumstances that allow Brook to highlight the ambiguous position of the county magistrate vis-à-vis monastic patronage."
The novel is narrated by Billy Bartholomew, the best friend of the protagonist, Eddie Proffit, as Eddie struggles not only with Billy’s recent death, but that of his father as well. An intelligent boy who is seemingly afflicted with ADHD, Eddie cannot stop talking until he is confronted with these two sudden deaths. The only way he can cope with these tragedies, then, is to stop talking entirely. Eddie’s mother seeks solace in the local Red Brick Church, an evangelical church run by the Reverend Tarter, who is a teacher at the local high school. Though his mother wants him to join the church, Eddie is disgusted by Tarter’s bigotry, and finds little help among his peers until his high school English class starts to read the fictional novel Warren Peece by Chris Crutcher. Tarter is horrified that high school students would be allowed to read a novel that is full of what he terms “bad language” and homosexual characters. This propels a challenge from Tarter’s church board to the school to get the novel removed from the curriculum. Eddie begins talking again when he testifies in front of the Red Brick Church announcing he will not only not join the church, but will also speak in favor of Warren Peece at the school board meeting. A misinterpretation of his testimony compels the church members to have Eddie placed into a mental health facility supposedly because Eddie thinks he is Jesus Christ. Crutcher places himself in the novel’s climax as
The novel is written in the first-person, continuing the aesthetic of Ellis' earlier Less Than Zero, and is told from the points of view of multiple characters. The main narrators are three students: Paul, Sean, and Lauren. A number of other characters also provide first-hand accounts throughout the story, which takes place at the fictional Camden College, a liberal arts school on the East Coast of the United States. The three main characters (who rarely attend class) end up in a love triangle within a sequence of drug runs, "Dress to Get Screwed", and "End of the World" parties. The story begins midway through a sentence (the first word being 'and') in order to give the effect that it begins somewhere closer to the middle, rather than at a true beginning (in medias res). Another interpretation is that the story has neither a beginning nor an ending, signifying the endless cycle of debauchery in which the characters of the novel engage. This is sometimes mistaken by readers as a typographical error or the result of a missing page, but was purposely done by Ellis. The novel ends in a similar fashion, with the last sentence cut off before it ends.
At age four, Young Ju moves with her parents from Korea to Southern California. While expecting an easy, blissful life in America, Young Ju sees the stress that the cultural adjustment puts on her family. She struggles with the language barrier at her new school, and her parents' relationship becomes inceasingly strained due to financial issues. Young Ju's brother, Joon, is born, and is given more freedom and choices due to his gender. Their father has a Jekyll and Hyde personality; sometimes a playful, loving parent, and all too often a violent alcoholic, eventually getting arrested for DUI and losing his drivers licence. As Young Ju matures and begins to enjoy friends and school, her parents fight constantly and Joon withdraws. When her father's brutality reaches a new peak (he nearly beats his wife to death), Young Ju steps in and calls the police to arrest him. When he is released from jail, he leaves the family without a word. Some time later, Young Ju is preparing to leave for college, and knows her mother and brother are finally starting a better life.
While traveling to Tunis on honeymoon with his new bride, the Parisian scholar Michel is overcome by tuberculosis. As he recovers, he re-discovers the physical pleasures of living and resolves to forgo his studies of the past in order to experience the present—to let "the layers of acquired knowledge peel away from the mind like a cosmetic and reveal, in patches, the naked flesh beneath, the authentic being hidden there." This is not, however, the Michel his colleagues knew—not a Michel that will be readily accepted by traditional society—and he must hide his new values under the patina of what he now reviles. Bored by Parisian society, he moves to a family farm in Normandy. He is happy there, especially in the company of young Charles, but he must soon return to the city and academe. Michel remains restless until he gives his first lecture and runs into Ménalque, who has long outraged society, and recognizes in him a reflection of his torment. Michel returns south, deeper into the desert, until, as he confides to his friends, he is lost in the sea of sand. Gide's story is filled by his descriptive prose, which evokes the exotic nature of Michel's inner and outer journey: "I did not understand the forbearance of this African earth, submerged for days at a time and now awakening from winter, drunk with water, bursting with new juices; it laughed in this springtime frenzy whose echo, whose image I perceived within myself." de:Der Immoralist es:El inmoralista
Three twenty-something women, one hot rich guy, two mega movie stars, and a devastating murder: Poor Little Bitch Girl has it all. Denver Jones is a hotshot twenty-something attorney working in L.A. Carolyn Henderson is personal assistant to a powerful and very married Senator in Washington with whom she is having an affair. And Annabelle Maestro—daughter of two movie stars—has carved out a career for herself in New York as the madame of choice for discerning famous men. The three of them went to high school together in Beverly Hills—and although Denver and Carolyn have kept in touch, Annabelle is out on her own with her cocaine addicted boyfriend, Frankie. Then there is Bobby Santangelo Stanislopolous, the Kennedyesque son of Lucky Santangelo and deceased Greek shipping billionaire, Dimitri Stanislopolous. Bobby owns Mood, the hottest club in New York. Back in the day he went to high school with Denver, Carolyn and Annabelle. And he connected with all three of them. Frankie is his best friend. When Annabelle’s beautiful movie star mother is found shot to death in the bedroom of her Beverly Hills mansion, the five of them find themselves thrown together . . . and secrets from the past have a way of coming back to haunt everyone. . . .
Kylar Stern has rejected the assassin's life. In the wake of the Godking's violent coup, both his master and his closest friend are dead. His friend was Logan Gyre, heir to Cenaria's throne, but few of the ruling class survive to mourn his loss. So Kylar is starting over: new city, new companions, and new profession. But when he learns that Logan might be alive, trapped and in hiding, Kylar faces an impossible choice: he could give up the way of shadows forever, and find peace with his young family. Or he could succumb to his flair for destruction, the years of training, to save his friend and his country - and lose all he holds precious. Godking Garoth Ursuul has assumed power in Cenaria and is manipulating the futures and destinies of all who live there. Many nobles, led by self proclaimed Queen Terah Graesin, have left the city in ruins to the Khalidorans. Attempting to leave behind the life of shadows that ruined his master, Kylar flees to Caernarvon and an idealic life with Elene. But darkness finds Kylar along the road to the light as friends return for one last job and Kylar learns more about who Durzo and ultimately Kylar are. Kylar has become a titanic force with a foot in the light and in the dark, but which will our twilight hero choose?
At the end of the Cretaceous period the Earth moved into an energy dampening field in space. As long as Earth was in this field all conductors became more insulating. As a result almost all of the life on Earth with neurons died off, causing the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. The ones that survived passed on their genes for sufficiently capable neurons to deal with the new circumstance. Now in modern times the Earth suddenly moves out of the field. Within weeks all animal life on earth becomes about 5 times as intelligent. The novel goes through the triumphs and tribulations of various people and non-human animals and groups on earth after this event. The book opens with a lyrical description of a rabbit stuck inside of a trap becoming able to reason his way out. This is a common theme in the book. Animal traps are based on the idea that the animal cannot reason their way out of them. When the animals get the ability to reason they start escaping. Institutions which seemed to be vital to human society, such as a money economy and centralized government, disappear in North America, while Africans, with the assistance of chimpanzees, overcome colonial rule and Chinese rebel against the Communist government. However, some of the means by which people cope with the "Change" are inventing new anti-scientific religions such as the Third Ba'al or adopting pseudo-science. As humans develop interstellar travel, they discover no other races are as intelligent as they; other
This novel follows Dragonsdawn and the short story The Dolphin's Bell (short story contained in The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall) by discussing the present state (Ninth Pass) of the dolphins that were brought to Pern by the colonists. Set near the end and after the events of All the Weyrs of Pern it further integrates the science fiction aspects of the origins of the Pern series with the fantastical aspects presented by the original books. The plot focuses primarily on two young characters and chronicles the birth of the Dolphincrafthall and its first Dolphineer. Readis, the Paradise River Lord Holder's son, is saved by talking dolphins ("shipfish") as a young boy after falling into the sea and subsequently develops a strong fascination with the dolphins. T'lion, the young Eastern Weyr dragonrider of Bronze Gadareth, also develops an interest after being involved in an early dolphin encounter. The two befriend each other due to their shared interest and, in their own ways, defy family, Hold and Weyr to maintain their friendships with dolphins and convince others of the dolphins' intelligence and ability to speak. While familiar characters struggle to end the era of Thread, Readis, T'lion and others struggle to begin a new era in which dolphin and human work together again. Well-known characters from previous Pern novels are also involved in the plot, including Benden Weyrleaders Lessa and F'lar, and Masterharpers Robinton and Menolly.
We meet the Henry family as they are driving from their small western Pennsylvania town to their new lives in Cape Hatteras. On the way, Jack accidentally starts an argument between his two parents because his father will tell lies just to win people over, while his mother will be honest no matter what. When they get to Cape Hatteras, a guard stops them because the island is covered with water. Jack's father lies their way onto the island. Everyone in the family is disappointed with their new home, which is a trailer half submerged in the water. Jack meets a new friend, Julian, who likes to stutter and play air guitar. Jack lies to Julian and tells him that he is from New York City and that his father is an admiral. After that, Jack realizes that he is more like his dad. Jack develops a crush on his new teacher, Miss Noelle. Miss Noelle learns about his crush when she keeps Jack after school for not writing a report about his dreams. Miss Noelle tells him that some of the best friendships start with a crush. Meanwhile, the principal of First Flight Elementary, Mrs. Nivlash, asks to see Jack. She tells him her plan to allow gum chewing at the school. However, if someone sticks just one piece of gum, the privilege will be revoked. Mrs. Nivlash appoints Jack to become the school's "respect detective" - someone to report if gum is being stuck to things. Jack hates
The "Dead Father" is being hauled with a cable by some of his children, across lands and under all weather conditions, towards a goal of an emancipatory nature but that is left mysterious throughout most of the story, to be revealed, at the end of the novel, to be his burial spot. The story, in a genre typical of the author, does not follow a conventional plot structure, but evolves through a series of revelations, seemingly-unrelated stories, anecdotes, dialogues,descriptive figments, surreal snapshots of reality, personal rendering of the characters' impressions or recordings. The whole of chapter 22 is a stream of bizarre, deconstructed sentences, as if muttered by a narrator too imbued by the urgency of his thoughts to give attention to proper grammar, giving the impression of a deep penetration in the character's consciousness. The plot is thus, more than in other novels, a support for the themes explored. The text is also noted for its word play, irony, absurdist humor, that are abundant in the author's short stories.
The plot concerns four college students who discover a manuscript, The Book of Skulls, dealing with an order of monks living in a monastery in the Arizona desert, whose members have the power to bestow immortality on those who complete their bizarre initiation rite. The boys travel to the monastery, where they are accepted as a "Receptacle," and told that for each group of four who agree to undergo the ritual, two must die in order for the others to succeed - one must sacrifice himself, and the other must be sacrificed. The narrative switches back and forth between the viewpoints of the four students as each confronts his personal demons on the way to completing the ritual. Ned, who is openly homosexual, must face his guilt over the tragic aftermath of one of his affairs; Eli, the gifted (but socially inept) young man who discovered the manuscript, makes a confession that could destroy his academic career; Timothy, star athlete and prodigal son of a wealthy family, confronts a terrible sin from his past involving his younger sister; and Oliver, the farm kid from the wrong side of the tracks, comes face to face with his own true innermost nature. The Book of Skulls has been republished as part of the series SF Masterworks.
In the prologue, Watarai leads his team of Cobalt Knights to an area inaccessible to normal players. They attempt to delete a vagrant AI in the form of a little girl in a red dress, but their attempt fails and she escapes. In the first chapter, we are introduced to Albireo. He cheats his way into the lowest level of the dungeon and meets the Vagrant AI. Through text chat, she reveals her name to be Lycoris. The end-of-dungeon treasure was an item named "eciov.cyl", which Albiero traded to Lycoris by her request. In the game, she gains her voice. Lycoris teleports them without warning to his home, where there was currently a massive monster attack. A newbie player, Hokuto, appeals to Albireo to help her. He is forced to help her and finish the event involuntarily, gaining an item "rae.cyl". This is also traded to Lycoris. Hokuto manages to blackmail him into letting her into his empty friend's list, and then into forming a party of the two of them. Due to this, Hokuto was able to see Lycoris. Albireo was also approached by Orca and Balmung to ask for assistance in resolving the "One Sin", an event considered unbeatable. He declined however. He was unable to log out from The World, but was able to continue with his normal life (unlike infected characters later in the .hack series, who fell into comas). Upon returning, he headed to the "One Sin" location. Hokuto met him there, and they witnessed
This is the story of Rannoch, a red deer born in ancient Scotland. The story begins on the night his father, Brechin, was murdered, and his mother, Eloin, taken by the servant of the Lord of the Herd, Sgorr. But Rannoch is no ordinary deer; he is special, for he bears a white mark on his forehead resembling an oak leaf. To the Herla, as the deer are called among the world of the animals, this white mark holds great meaning and power. It was stated in a prophecy that the deer who was born with the mark would bring freedom to all Herla in the future, and that the bearer of the oak mark would be a healer and have the ability to communicate with all animals. The Lord of the Herds, Drail, wants Rannoch killed out of fear of The Prophecy. Drail is tricked and murdered by Sgorr, who has militarized the herd by making the stags sharpen their antlers, training and drilling the young bucks, having them bore each other in the forehead to make permanent scars, and will take no resistance. He realizes the threat Rannoch poses to his leadership. Rannoch escapes from the herd, accompanied by Bracken, not his real mother, and his companions Thistle, Tain, twins Peppa and Willow, Quiach, Bankfoot and their mothers, and Bhreac, an old doe who promised the herd storyteller to protect Rannoch. Growing up outside of the herd, he struggles to choose between the life of freedom he now
The book chronicles a three-week fishing trip through central Nova Scotia, and is an excellent account of the unspoiled Nova Scotia wilderness that existed at the time, which has been largely diminished since. The group encounters moose (which Eddie tries to capture and bring back alive), beaver, and numerous trout, the first of which is now very scarce in the region, and legions of mosquitos, moose flies, black flies, noseeums, and midges, all of which are regrettably abundant to this day. Many of the areas described in the book, then virtually unexplored and uncharted, are now well known to back-country campers in Kejimkujik Park and the Tobeatic Wilderness Area. The descriptions of the central Nova Scotia woods contained in the book are beautifully written and uncannily accurate, and while the trout which brought Paine and Breck to Nova Scotia are less abundant, due in part to acid rain and increased fishing pressure, they still provide good sport for anglers. http://www.troutnovascotia.ca/issues.htm http://www.ilec.or.jp/database/nam/nam-56.html Paine, a wealthy New England socialite, initially had some difficulties with the lack of modern amenities in camp life, but soon came to love the rugged beauty and solitude of the woods. As advice to other potential campers, he has this to offer: "...if you are willing to get wet and stay wet - to get cold and stay cold - to be bruised, and scuffed, and bitten - to be hungry and thirsty, and to have your muscles strained and sore from unusual taxation: if you will welcome
The story concerns Lancelot who has survived to the present day by means of magic. He must help Morgana le Fay confront Merlin, who is half-mad and attempting to meddle in the affairs of the world. Lancelot has remained alive since the fall of Camelot, having the appearance of an elderly man but retaining his strength and fighting skills. He has spent his long life seeking the Holy Grail, believing that his immortality is punishment for his sins, and that finding the Grail will end his curse. Lancelot instead learns from Morgana le Fay that Merlin is responsible for his condition. Merlin has slept for centuries, but is about to awaken, and intends for Lancelot to be his champion and protector. Morgana warns Lancelot that Merlin will cause great harm in his misguided attempts to right the wrongs of the modern world, and that he must be stopped. Lancelot finds Merlin and rejuvenates him from his centuries-long sleep with a magic elixir. Lancelot tries to persuade Merlin to desist from his plans, and Merlin removes the spell of immortality. Anticipating Merlin, Lancelot drinks the remainder of the elixir to restore his own youth. Merlin summons a "hollow knight" (a suit of armor animated by a spirit) to kill Lancelot. Morgana defeats Merlin, and Lancelot vanquishes the spirit, but is mortally wounded. As Lancelot dies, he finally sees a vision of the Holy Grail.
Aging rock star Judas Coyne spends his retirement collecting morbid memorabillia such as a witch's confession, a real snuff film and, after being sent an e-mail directly about the item online, a dead man's suit. He is told, by the daughter(whom he does not know at the time), that the old man's spirit is attached to this funeral suit. The ghost will go wherever it does and so buying this suit would effectively be buying a poltergeist; Judas cannot pass up this opportunity. The suit soon arrives in a heart-shaped box. Various odd occurrences alert Judas to the fact that the ghost is dangerous and is out to kill him and those around him. His assistant, Danny Wooten realizes that the ghost of the suit will try to kill everyone round Jude. He leaves Jude's service, but not before contacting the woman who sent the suit. Jude finds out that the ghost was the father of a groupie, Florida (it is later revealed that her real name is Anna), whom he dated for a few months and who had later committed suicide. The ghost wanted revenge on Jude for causing Anna's death, as he saw it. His current girlfriend, Georgia (whose name is actually Marybeth), refuses to leave and together they run from the house with the ghost chasing them. The ghost's intention is to keep Jude away from his two dogs, Angus and Bon, as it turns out that dogs, as familiars, can protect their owners from the dead.
The book follows the story of two 13-year old boys named Brian and Gregory (who are friends, but total opposites) who visit a mansion in Vermont owned by Gregory's Uncle Max. Uncle Max is a strange character who uses complicated words from the past such as "effluents" and "insalubrities" and acts very much like an Edwardian-era aristocrat. The two boys uncover the board of the Game of Sunken Places in the nursery and unintentionally set the game into motion. They also meet Gregory's cousin Prudance, a girl from the area. Thus they become involved in an age-old ritual conflict between enchanted supernatural races. Once they go out into the woods and begin playing the game, they meet unlikely allies such as Kalgrash the troll and work together to accomplish all the challenges using the game board as a map. In the final challenge, Gregory is about to win and Brian is being strangled by Jack Stimple. By believing that Jack was their opponent, the two almost fell into his trap. Jack was not playing the game at all. Gregory was the player for the Thusser Hordes and was about to win when Brian stopped him. Jack Stimple was meanwhile being dragged away by monks for strangling Brian. Gregory trusts Brian, and lets him win the game and so another battle had been won in the name of the Norumbegans.
Elsa is a bright and lively young girl who has dreams to become a comedienne. When her stepfather loses his job, her family, including her baby half-brother Hank and half-sister Pippa, are forced to move into a rundown bed and breakfast hotel that is used as accommodation for poor families. She doesn't get along with her stepfather, as he often loses his temper with her and hits her, so takes to spending time with her friend Naomi, with her little sister usually tagging along. Eventually her mother makes her attend the nearby school. Elsa has a hard time adjusting to the new circumstances and doesn't enjoy her new school, as she is behind in lessons so has to take extra classes. She frequently plays truant from school with boys from the hotel. One night Elsa awakes to the smell of smoke, and upon investigating she discovers the hotel kitchen is on fire. Using her loud voice, she runs from to door to door, yelling to wake up all the residents. Everyone in the hotel makes it out safely, and Elsa has a chance to appear on television when a news reporter asks her how she woke up everyone up. As much of the hotel is damaged, Elsa's family and many others are given temporary accommodation in a much nicer hotel. Elsa finally has a chance to star on television when she is invited on a programme about courageous children.
The novel opens in a small village in Ixopo Ndotsheni, where the black pastor Stephen Kumalo receives a letter from the priest Theophilus Msimangu in Johannesburg. Msimangu urges Kumalo to come to the city to help his sister Gertrude, because she is ill. It is a long journey to Johannesburg and Kumalo sees the wonders of the modern world for the first time. Kumalo goes to Johannesburg to help Gertrude and to find his son Absalom, who had gone to the city to look for Gertrude but never came home. When he gets to the city, Kumalo learns that Gertrude has taken up a life of prostitution and beer brewing, and is now drinking heavily. She agrees to return to the village with her young son. Assured by these developments, Kumalo embarks on the search for his son, first seeing his brother John, a carpenter who has become involved in the politics of South Africa. Kumalo and Msimangu follow Absalom's trail only to learn that Absalom has been in a reformatory and will have a child with a young woman. Shortly thereafter, Kumalo learns that his son has been arrested for murder. The victim is Arthur Jarvis, who was killed during a burglary. Arthur was an engineer and a white activist for racial justice, and he happens to be the son of Kumalo's neighbour James Jarvis. Jarvis learns of his son's death and comes with his family to Johannesburg. Jarvis and his son had been distant, and now the father
In the late 19th century, the village of Middleton is on the verge of bankrupty due to the tin mine running out, when a huge fissure opens in the moorlands. After a visitor called Roger Nepath offers to buy the mine and visits the fissure with the lord of the manor, Lord Urton's personality changes, and allows Nepath to move into his manor house with his sister Patience. The amnesiac Doctor arrives at the village and befriends Professor Dobbs from The Society of Psychical Research during his research into the fissure. Dobbs's assistant Gaddis claims to have empathic powers, which lead him to point along the fissure, where he is chased off by Urton. The Doctor notices that the water in a dam near the fissure has become warm and acidic, suggesting that it has been heated. Returning to the Fissure they find Gaddis's corpse horribly burnt, which fascinates the Doctor. Nepath later holds an auction to fund his purchase, and demonstration a metal that returns to its original shape when destroyed, which Nepath gives the Doctor a sample of. The army gives Nepath a large amount of money for him to create self repairing guns for the army, which Nepath uses to buy more mining equipment. Later, the metal turns into molten lava, which causes the remains of TARDIS to grow to normal size, although it is still a featureless blue box. Dobbs and the Doctor break into the manor and discover that Nepath had been making many copies
Jake Donaghue has just arrived back in London from a trip to France. Finn, a distant relative who is so obliging that he is sometimes mistaken for a servant, tells Jake that they are being thrown out of Madge's house, where they have been living rent-free for eighteen months. A conversation with Madge reveals that they are being moved to make way for her new lover, the rich bookmaker Sammy Starfield. He goes with his suitcase to the cat-filled corner shop of Mrs Tinckham to check he has all his manuscripts and figure out where to live. Only one manuscript is missing: his translation of Le Rossignol de Bois, a novel by Jean-Pierre Breteuil. It is a mediocre work which he has done for money. He thinks of an old friend, a philosopher named Dave Gellman, and goes to his flat. A political meeting is being held there, and Dave is dismissive, but allows him to leave his suitcase. Finn suggests that he ask Anna Quentin, a singer he once fell in love with. Jake has not seen Anna for several years. He eventually tracks her down to the Riverside Miming Theatre, on Hammersmith Mall, and finds her in a prop room "like a vast toy shop". She is happy to see him, but somewhat uncomfortable when he asks about her new project, involving mime. She suggests that he ask her film-star sister, Sadie, for help. After she leaves he spends the night sleeping in the prop room. The next
Commissioner Gordon informs Batman that the patients of Arkham Asylum have taken over the facility, threatening to murder the staff unless Batman agrees to meet with them. Among the hostages is Dr. Charles Cavendish, Arkham's administrator, and Dr. Ruth Adams, a therapist. The patients are led by the Joker, who kills a guard to spur Batman to obey his wishes. Meanwhile, Two-Face's mental condition has deteriorated as a result of Adams' therapy; she replaced Two-Face's trademark coin with a six-sided die and a tarot deck, hoping that he would realize that he doesn't need any of them. Instead, the treatment renders him incapable of even making simple decisions, such as going to the bathroom. The Joker forces Batman into a game of hide and seek, giving him one hour to escape Arkham before his adversaries are sent to hunt him down. However, unbeknownst to Batman, the Joker shortens the time from one hour after being pressured by the other inmates. Batman subsequently encounters Clayface, Mad Hatter, and Maxie Zeus, among other villains. During a struggle with Killer Croc, Batman is thrown out of a window, grabbing onto the statue of an angel. Clutching the statue's bronze spear, Batman climbs back inside and impales Croc before throwing him out the window, sustaining a severe wound from the spear in the process. Batman finally reaches a secret room high in the towers of the asylum. Inside, he discovers Cavendish dressed in a bridal gown and threatening Adams with a razor. It is
The story begins in the year 1199, just before the beginning of the Fourth Crusade. Young Arthur de Caldicot, thirteen years of age at the time, is the second son of a knight living in Caldicot manor in the "Middle Marches" of the March of Wales. Most of the first book deals with the stresses associated with medieval life. Most important to Arthur is the fact that he is Sir John's second son, and thus ineligible to inherit land. In order to have a life of his own, he must become a squire and then a knight, and create his own manor and farmland. One challenge to overcome is his inadequate "yard-skills", especially jousting and sword-play. He is left-handed, considered a dangerous oddity in those days, but he must joust and fence with his off-hand. Another challenge is that his father would make him a scribe for his skill reading and writing. The obstacles disappear when he learns on his fourteenth birthday that his "uncle" Sir William de Gortanore is really his father; he becomes heir to a large manor. Unfortunately, it seems that his mother's husband was murdered by Sir William, who was jealous of him. And the revelation terminates the betrothal of Arthur and Grace, Sir William's daughter; as Grace is Arthur's half-sister they cannot marry. The novel ends with Arthur accepted as squire to the Lord of the Middle Marches, Stephen de Holt, . The wizard Merlin gives Arthur de Caldicot the "Seeing Stone" early in the
The house of Woodroff, and English merchant and justice of the peace, is celebrating the wedding of Woodroff's daughter Annabel with her suitor Bonvile. Two of the wedding guests, Lessingham and Clare, open the play in conversation about the wedding. Lessingham, who is in love with Clare, tries to use the occasion to further his own suit; but Clare is withdrawn and taciturn. She leaves him alone, then sends him a curt and cryptic message that reads: ::Prove all thy friends, find out the best and nearest; ::Kill for my sake the friend that loves thee dearest. Lessingham is appalled at this; but his passion for Clare is so intense that he feels compelled to obey Clare's dictates to win her love. When other wedding guests and friends reproach Lessingham for his preoccupation, he confesses that he needs a friend to second him in a duel &mdash; a friend who will not only support him morally, but fight and perhaps die with him. Lessingham's professed friends quickly drop away with a variety of excuses, till only one is left: it is Bonvile, the groom. Without hesitation, Bonvile delays his wedding night to accompany Lessingham to the "field of honor" &mdash; so proving himself to be the "best and nearest" friend that Lessingham must kill. Since duelling is illegal in England, Lessingham and Bonvile leave immediately for Calais, as was customary at the time. Annabel is distressed to find that her groom has left without a word; she sends a servant
In 1949, 16-year-old Steven Traynor is stateside after fighting the Axis forces in the skies over Europe. Joining him on his train ride is Leni Muller, a defector from the German Luftwaffe who fought Steven on her industrial broomstick as the Skywitch. Both are headed to the newly founded Neopolis, a city where the "science heroes," robots, mad scientists and other unique characters are being located to (out of the public's eye). After registering at town hall, Steven and Leni both head to their lodgings at Betty Doesgood's. Later that night at Scowling Joe's bar, Steven is introduced to the The Skysharks, fellow pilots that act as a private air force for Neopolis. Skyshark Wulf recommends Steven to be mechanic for the air field, an idea he happily accepts. After a near scuffle between local gangsters and Scowling Joe, Leni is introduced to several members of the police force, and decides to apply for a job. After meeting officers like armored scientist Steelgauntlet and toy inventor Major Lilliput, Leni is introduced to her partner, the Black Rider. Out on her first patrol, Leni and Black Rider arrest a hero and his sidekick for felony vigilante assault on a former archenemy. The partners then get a call to investigate a call from the Institute, the scientific research facility where many of the German refugee scientists are currently working. The body of Herr Panzer has been discovered, his body turned to ash and bones inside his armored suit. While Black Rider calls
Sassinak and her family live on a newly colonized world and are celebrating the end of the production year when all the colonies goods will be exported to other worlds. But the carrier never comes, and instead the planet and its people are soon under attack by pirates. The colonists put up a futile defense against the pirates' superior firepower, numbers and skill at their task. Sassinak witnesses the death of both her parents and her two siblings before she is taken off planet to become a slave. At the slave depot she is sold, but is counseled by another slave called Abe - who is ex-Fleet. He teaches her Discipline and imbeds a message in her mind that will only be remembered when she is confronted with a Fleet officer. She is sold once again when her skills have improved enough for her to work as a navigator on a ship. The ship that she is on is captured by Fleet and she is rescued, the imbedded message comes out and Fleet is able to attack the slave depot and free all the slaves. Abe adopts Sassinak and she begins her quest to go to the Academy, where all Fleet officers receive their training. After prep-school she enters the Academy and excels but is always conscious that she wants to hunt pirates when she gets her stars and her own ship. On her graduation night Abe takes her out for dinner, but Abe is killed. Sassinak suspects it is
The book begins in March 1922 P.D. as tensions continue to escalate between the Star Empire of Manticore and the Solarian League after the battles of New Tuscany, Spindle, and the Yawata Strike. Manticore begins to enact Case Lacoön by recalling all of its merchant vessels from Solarian space, taking control of, and denying access to wormhole bridges and junctions to Solarian traffic. As the effects of Manticore's actions begin to reverberate throughout the League, Permanent Senior Undersecretary Innokentiy Kolokoltsov and his four fellow senior bureaucrats, known derisively as "the five Mandarins", start feeling the pressure from the transstellar corporations and criticisms from the media. While it is clear that Manticore is in a position to do the League economy tremendous harm, the Mandarins are not willing to pay the political and diplomatic price of taking responsibility for the actions of the League Navy. They continue to support Admiral Rajani Rajampet's planned invasion of the Manticoran Star System, despite the risk that a failure of the invasion will make them look even weaker and ineffectual than before. In the meantime, Captain Anton Zilwicki and Agent Victor Cachat arrive at Haven and present to President Eloise Pritchart their evidence of Mesan involvement in the assassinations that triggered the resumption of hostilities between Haven and Manticore. Upon hearing this and supporting information from their defector, Dr. Herlander Simões, about other new technologies and revelations before unknown about Mesa, she sets out on an unprecedented state visit to Manticore. The evidence is presented
Pearl and Jodie are sisters. Jodie, 13, is very protective of her younger sister, Pearl. Jodie is boisterous, mischievous and dresses in a flamboyant manner. Pearl, 10, is shy and loves to read books. She also admires and looks up to Jodie. Their mother and father, Sharon and Joe, decide to move to Melchester College, where they have both been offered new jobs as a cook and caretaker, respectively. Their motivation is to give the girls an opportunity to receive an excellent education. Jodie does not want to move because her mother says she will have to retake Year 8 because her current school is not giving her a proper education. Pearl, however, is glad because she is the victim of constant bullying at her school. She views the move as an opportunity to have a fresh start at a different place. When family moves to the college, Jodie is grumpy and says that she is only joining everyone else because she needs to look after Pearl. Once they reach their destination, Miss French, the school secretary, comes to meet them at the gate. The family seems to like her because of Miss French's friendly nature. On their first night at the school, they meet Mr Wilberforce, the Headmaster, as well as his wheelchair-using wife Mrs Wilberforce. They eat dinner in the Wilberforces' bungalow where Miss French is also an invited guest. As it is the summer holidays, very few students reside at the school. The sisters meet tall, badger-watching
The novel takes place in the French 19th century countryside. The parents of Landry and Sylvinet, identical twins, who are respectable and relatively rich farmers, do not follow the advice that was given at their birth to keep separating and differentiating them while they are still young. Consequently, they grow up always together and loving each other more than anything else. They are actually quite different, Landry being stronger both physically and mentally. But when they are 14 years old, one has to leave to work in a neighbouring farm. While the separation is also very hard for Landry, his pride makes him try to hide it, contrary to Sylvinet who cries and is very demonstrative. Sylvinet does not understand and therefore is hurt by Landry's cold attitude and regularly sulks. When looking for his brother, Landry must deal with Fadette. Fadette lives with her disabled and mentally slow brother and her grandmother who is very hard on them. They are despised by the other villagers because they are considered as witches and are always very dirty. This day, Fadette helps Landry to find his brother but he had to promise her that if she has to help him a second time, she could ask him to do anything she wants. And it happens that Landry needs her advice again to cross a river. Consequently, Fadette asks him to dance with her and only with her at the next village celebration. Landry is very annoyed since she has a bad
Almost 100 years after A. (which we find out stands for Albert) Square's adventures that were related in Flatland, his great-great-granddaughter, Victoria Line (Vikki), finds a copy of his book in her basement. This prompts her to invite a sphere from Spaceland to visit her, but instead she is visited by the "Space Hopper" (a character looking somewhat like the "Space Hopper" children's toy with a gigantic grin, horns and a spherical body). The Space Hopper, more than being able to move between Flatland and Spaceland, can travel to any space in the Mathiverse, a set of all imaginable worlds. After showing Vikki higher dimensions, he begins showing her more modern theories, such as fractional dimensions and dimensions with isolated points. Topology and hyperbolic geometry are also discussed, as well as the Projective "Plain" (complete with intersecting "lions") and the quantum level. Hopper and Victoria also visit the Domain of the Hawk King to discuss time travel and the Theory of Relativity.
On a winter night in Antaris, Tamen, the Guardian of the Wall, and other priestesses approach the ice Wall that surrounds Antaris. A priestess drugs herself, whereupon the other priestesses sing a hole into the wall. The drugged priestess is sealed inside. Characters Calwyn, Mica, and Trout are traveling to Antaris, Calwyn's home, hoping that the priestesses may restore Calwyn's lost powers of chantment, by which she was able to manipulate wind, ice, animals, and living systems. Upon reaching the Wall, Mica uses the Clarion of the Flame, a magical object used to invoke fire, to burn a hole into the Wall. The drugged priestess is revealed, whereupon Calwyn tries to heal her, but does not succeed. The three notice other corpses encased in the Wall, which Calwyn attributes to a failure to entomb them according to custom. The three proceed to the priestesses' Dwellings. When reaching the Dwellings, Calwyn enters the kitchen where she sees a now crippled Lia, a revered priestess and milk healer. Lia warns Calwyn that Tamen will hunt Calwyn down and seal her into the Wall with the other priestesses; having contracted an ailment called snow-sickness, they were put into the Wall in hopes of appeasing their goddess Taris, who would presumably restore spring. Marna, the High Priestess, has died and Tamen has been promoted to High Priestess in her place. Tamen then appears and accuses Calwyn of bringing the cruel intruder Samis, the endless winter, and the snow-sickness to their homeland. Calwyn argues that
The story starts with a prologue, telling the tale of young British aristocrat, Richard Devine, who is the son of a shipbuilding magnate, Sir Richard Devine. In an incidence of domestic violence, Richard's mother reveals to Sir Richard that his son was fathered by another man, Lord Bellasis. Sir Richard proceeds to threaten the mother's reputation if Richard does not leave and never come back. He leaves him to pack for a while, claiming that he will fetch his lawyer to alter his will so that Richard receives no inheritance. When Richard leaves, he comes across a murder scene: his biological father, Lord Bellasis has been murdered, and Richard witnesses Sir Richard walking away from the scene of the crime. The police come and lock up Richard, who now gives his name as Rufus Dawes (which is used for the remainder of the book), for the murder of Lord Bellasis. Additionally, Sir Richard returns home and dies straight away, possibly of a heart-attack, without altering his will. Rufus Dawes/Richard Devine never finds this out. Rufus is found not guilty of the murder but guilty of the robbery of the corpse and sentenced to transportation to the penal colony of Australia. In 1827, Dawes is shipped to Van Diemen's Land on the "Malabar", which also carries Captain Vickers, who is to become the new commander of the penal settlement at Macquarie Harbour, his wife Julia and child Sylvia, Julia's maid, one Sarah Purfoy and Lieutenant Maurice Frere, Richard Devine's cousin, son
The Fafhrd and Gray Mouser stories follow the lives of two larcenous but likable rogues as they adventure across the fantasy world of Nehwon. The pieces in Swords Against Death follow the duo as they shake the dust of Lankhmar from their feet in the wake of the deaths their of their first loves, only to find their resolution never to return pointless ("The Circle Curse"). There follow a miscellaneous series of adventures from their wanderings, including a quest for treasure in a dwelling with unique defenses ("The Jewels in the Forest"), a return bout with the Thieves' Guild they hold responsible for their ladies' deaths ("Thieves' House"), an ensorcelled journey to a far-away land ("The Bleak Shore"), an encounter with a beast-haunted stranger ("The Howling Tower"), a dangerous visit to the Nehwonian equivalent of Atlantis ("The Sunken Land"), a conflict with a murderous priesthood ("The Seven Black Priests"), a magical plague afflicting Lankhmar ("Claws from the Night"), a final parting with their deceased loves in the Shadowland ("The Price of Pain-Ease"), and an investigation of a mysterious shop that is other than it seems ""Bazaar of the Bizarre").
The story takes place in the year 2363. The protagonist is Cadet Larry Stark, a 20-year-old, fresh graduate of the Space Patrol Academy who comes from a long line of Space Patrol commanders. As the story begins, he is embarking on the customary final training cruise on the interstellar ship Carden. At the end of this cruise, he will be awarded a commission as officer of the Space Patrol. The ship makes the four and a half light-year journey to the star Alpha Centauri in a span of 15 days using the faster-than-light overdrive. The fourth planet orbiting Alpha C, an earth-like planet inhabited by dinosaurs, has been colonized 125 years earlier. Cadet Stark, who has been taught to obey orders and to trust the infallibility of Earth and the Space Patrol, arrives at planet IV of Alpha C just as the colonists are voting to declare, and possibly fight for, their independence from Earth. The arrival of the Carden and its crew can potentially affect the course of events in this revolution. The young cadet, for the first time in his life, must choose the proper and honorable course of action in a situation where there is no clear right and wrong. The consequences of his actions may place in jeopardy his career with the Space Patrol and the love of his father. The story is apparently a metaphor for the American Revolution, with Earth representing England and Alpha Centauri representing the US. Ultimately Cadet Stark sides with the
The animal theme is probably the oldest in literature. Cavemen told stories of hunts, of talking animals and probably of animal-like gods. The first book of the Bible places the serpent in paradise, speaking wisely to the first man and woman. Classical authors like Lucian and Apuleius wrote satires in which pretentious people turned into lowly animals, like a jackass. William Shakespeare created his own memorable jackass, and Miguel de Cervantes had his witty talking dogs. In our century, Franz Kafka presented the learned address of a highly refined ape to a scientific academy. Probably no writer worth his salt has not at one time or other picked up the theme. A little-known, but fascinating contribution to this tradition is [Mundo animal, or Animal World, by the Argentine author, Antonio di Benedetto. It is strangely different from its celebrated predecessors. Kafka, for example, impresses the reader with a striking artistic conception, ingenious logic and magnificent language in each story. Di Benedetto's stories do not impress in this way. Written in conversational and even intentionally awkward language, they present a confused and troubled narrator, who, tormented by mysterious gnawings of guilt, becomes involved in some obscure way with an animal or whole group of animals. They invade his soul, drive him to rage or deliver him from his obsession. Often the story hinges on a pun, a distorted folktale, or an illogical association. While not spectacular in itself, each story adds to the preceding to create a growing sense of doom.
The Discworld part of the book begins when a new experimental power source for the Unseen University is commissioned in the university's squash court. The new "reactor" is capable of splitting the thaum (the basic particle of magic), in homage to the Chicago Pile-1 nuclear reactor, which was housed in a rackets court at the University of Chicago. However, the wizards' new reactor produces vastly more magical energy than planned and threatens to explode, destroying the University, the Discworld, and the entire universe. The university's thinking engine, Hex, decides to divert all the magic into creating a space containing nothing&nbsp;— no matter, no energy, no reality, and, importantly, no magic. The Dean sticks his fingers in the space and "twiddles" them, inadvertently creating the universe. The wizards soon discover that they can move things around in the universe, using Hex. They call it the Roundworld (the Earth), because in it, matter seems to accrete into balls in space (instead of discs on the backs of turtles). They decide to appoint Rincewind, whom they dragged out of bed in the early hours of the morning, the Egregious Professor of Cruel and Unusual Geography, and send him down (against his will) to investigate this strange world. The wizards create a series of balls of matter in space, and give one of them a Moon (accidentally). This stabilizes the ball enough that, over a score of millennia (the wizards can skip over vast periods of Roundworld time, allowing them to view the history
The heroine, Lana, lives in a synthetic city and works as a pixel. Every evening millions of people, working as pixels, perform a 20-minute light show for the other citizens. They wear colourful robes and during each sunset they receive commands in the form of music through headphones. Each command means a certain type of movement, so that by moving/dancing, different parts of their clothes are exposed to the sun rays, thus reflecting the sunlight in different colours. All this can be seen on a huge screen in the synthetic city, where all citizens watch it. After every light show all pixels receive a packet of energy which allows them to survive until their next dose. If a pixel makes a mistake during a show, so that the picture appears distorted, they are punished by not receiving an energy packet. If they haven't stored anything from their previous doses, they will not survive the next day. Lana's best friend, Eve, makes such a mistake and is not given a packet. Lana does her best to save her but doesn't succeed. In the synthetic city there is a rumour spread that some people don't need these packets of synthetic energy and can live on their own, by the energy their hearts and spirits produce. These people are chased by the energy police: they are slaughtered in the factory (a mystic place about which little is known) and their energy is used for maintaining the lives of the synthetics by turning it
The story follows twins Mika and Ellie who live in England. Mika and Ellie live with their parents in the poverty stricken area behind The Wall on the first level in a fold out apartment located in Barford North. Ellie has been kidnapped and is being held by the leader of the Youth Development Foundation, Mal Gorman. Although everyone says that Ellie is dead, Mika refuses to believe that she is. Even a year after Ellie's "death", Mika still believes his sister is alive. His parents seek help from an old lady named Helen who always seems to know more than she says. In the beginning of the book, Ellie is flying a Pod Fighter, along with a Capuchin monkey named Puck that Mal Gorman gave to her. They are flying over the Atlantic Ocean, and she flies toward her home, Barford North. There, Mal's forces try to kill her. Soon, her Pod Fighter is shot down, and she is forced into flood-waters. Mal Gorman captures her, and in her anger she nearly kills him with her mutant powers. She was outnumbered, captured, and taken to the Lab to be examined with Puck, for they were both clearly underestimated. Back home, Mika does not believe Ellie is dead. He still grieves at her absence. He sleeps in her bed, and does not move. Eventually, his parents send him to school. At his school, he meets a new person - a boy named Kobi who came from the shadows. During the
As the story starts, the reader is introduced to the fictitious community of Treby in the English Midlands in 1832, around the time of the First Reform Act. Harold Transome, a local landowner, has returned home after a fifteen-year trading career in the Far East. Wealthy from trade, he stands for election to Parliament from the county seat of North Loamshire. But contrary to his family's Tory traditions, he intends to stand as a Radical. This alienates him from his traditional allies and causes despair for his mother, Mrs. Transome. Harold Transome gains the support of his Tory uncle, the Rector of Little Treby, and enlists the help of his family lawyer, Matthew Jermyn, as an electioneering agent. Much of his electioneering is focused in Treby Magna. In this village resides Felix Holt, who has recently returned from extensive travels in Glasgow to live with his mother. He meets with Rev. Rufus Lyon, a Dissenting minister in Treby Magna, and his stepdaughter, Esther. Felix and Mr. Lyon become ready friends, but he appears to treat Esther with condescension. Felix and Rev. Lyon both appear aligned to the Radical cause. Harold Transome learns that Jermyn has been mismanaging the Transome estate and embezzling money for himself. Transome remains silent during the election, yet Jermyn tries to devise a plan to save himself from future prosecution. Meanwhile, Felix witnesses some electioneering for the Radical cause in the nearby mining town of Sproxton. He is upset with the 'treating' of workers with beer
This part is a story of wooing and seduction of a young woman, Silvia, by Philander, her brother-in-law. ;Silvia's and Philander's flight to Holland: Silvia, disguised as a young man with the name Fillmond, and Philander run away to Holland. Brilljard, who has been married to Silvia to save her from being married to another man by her parents, and two male servants accompany them. On their journey they meet a young Hollander, Octavio. Quickly, a strong friendship develops between Philander and Octavio. Not knowing that Fillmond is in fact a woman, Octavio nevertheless falls in love with Silvia on their joint journey. Philander confides to Octavio that he is in conflict with his King, and after Philander and Silvia decline Octavio's offer to stay with him in his Palace, he accommodates them at a merchant's house nearby. There Philander and Silvia, still in disguise, spend a happy time together. Brilljard, staying with them, falls secretly in love with Silvia. When Silvia falls into a violent fever, her true sex is discovered by the servants and the whole truth of their story is revealed to Octavio by Philander. ;Philander's flight from Holland: Octavio, torn between his affection for Silvia and his friendship to Philander, urges the same to leave the country within 24 hours as he fears he will otherwise be taken by force to the King of France. Philander's first response is that he'd rather die than leave Silvia behind. Also, he is scared that she might fall in
The main character, Abélard Lindsay, is born in the ancient lunar colony Mare Serenitatis Circumlunar Corporate Republic, into a family of aristocratic Mechanists, but after being sent to the Shaper’s Ring Council, he receives specialized and experimental diplomatic training and gives his loyalty to the Shapers' cause. He, his best friend and fellow Shaper protege Philip Constantine and the beautiful and passionate Preservationist Vera Kelland lead an insurgency against the rulers of the republic, who use Mechanist technology to prolong their lives. The three of them influence the younger generation towards the Shapers' cause in their pursuit of Preservationism, a movement devoted to the preservation of earth-bound human culture. Kelland and Lindsay agree to kill themselves as a political statement, but Lindsay reneges on his suicide pact after Kelland is dead. Constantine attempts to kill Lindsay but instead kills a Mechanist, creating a scandal. Constantine is allowed to remain in the Republic because his knowledge is needed to keep the Republic's environment from self-destructing but Lindsay is exiled to the Mare Tranquilitatis Circumlunar People's Zaibatsu. This lunar colony, which collapsed due to an environmental crisis, has become a refuge for "sundogs", criminals, dissidents and wanderers. There he meets Kitsune, a woman modified by the Shapers to be an ideal prostitute. Apparently a servant of the Geisha Bank, a powerful money center, she in fact rules the bank through the remotely operated body of her now brain-dead predecessor. In his months on the Zaibatsu, Lindsay uses his diplomatic talents to organize
In a prologue, veteran underground guide Ike Crockett abandons his wife Alexandra von Schade and unborn child to return to the subterranean world, driven by feelings and whispers he cannot understand. He does not plan on returning to the surface. At the same time, an unscrupulous video documentary producer named Clemens is leading a film crew and its support team into the abandoned Hadal metropolis discovered by the ill-fated Helios expedition three years earlier. The film crew is wiped out by an unseen force, with Clemens the sole survivor. The main narrative resumes a few years later. While tensions between the United States and China increase on the surface, sub-planetary exploration and colonization is booming, ratcheting up potentials for international conflicts. The subterranean world is though to be safe, having been "sanitized" by the viral bioweapon deployed during the first novel's Helios expedition. On Halloween night, scores of children are suddenly abducted by the long-thought-extinct Hadals, who brutally kill any adults attempting to intervene. The Hadals take the children back underground with them, leaving the United States in a panic. Due to the tensions with the Chinese, the U.S. government decides against mobilizing the military to perform a sweep of the sub-planetary Pacific region in search of the kidnapped children and the apparently-not-extinct Hadals. Ali von Schade is approached by Rebecca, a tall and statuesque young woman whose husband was killed and whose daughter, Samantha, was kidnapped by Hadals. Due to Ali's previous experience with Hadals and the sub-planet, Rebecca
A young boy, Omri, receives a cupboard from his brother, Gillon, for his birthday. He uses a "magical" key, which belonged to his great-grandmother, to bring a plastic Native American figurine to life with the cupboard. The now-living Indian reveals his name as Little Bear (in some editions he is called Little Bull), and he is an Iroquois who lived in the 18th century. Omri's best friend, Patrick, finds out about the magic cupboard and brings a cowboy, Boone, into the present. Despite the fights and rivalries between the two tiny men, Patrick refuses to send them back until it is too late — Little Bear wounds Boone with an arrow while they are watching an old western movie on the television. Although Omri has a World War I medic figure, who could treat the injured Boone, he cannot be brought to life as the key is missing. After a brief adventure with Gillon's pet rat, who had escaped, the key is found and Boone is treated. However Little Bear is a demanding character, and ultimately Omri must provide him with a bride, Bright Stars (in some editions she is called Twin Stars). Omri thinks it best to send Little Bear, Bright Stars and (with Patrick's agreement) Boone back to their time, and Omri gives his mother the key so he is not tempted to bring them back.
Echo feels overshadowed by her beautiful, angel-like mother, Eva, and lacks the attention of her artist father, Caliban. The summer her father is diagnosed with cancer, she encounters Storm, a boy with angel wings, and falls in love with him, but he tells her it is not the right time. She leaves for school in autumn, where she starts dating a poet Thorn, with whom she lives until she develops an eating disorder and drops out of school. Eva refuses to accept Caliban's death, and believes a white horse that mysteriously appears in her garden is a reincarnation of her husband. Echo meets Nina and her boyfriend Mark, both of them obsessed with sports and perfect bodies, and aspires to be like them. Even after she is warned by Nina's brother Skye, whom she rather likes, she continues their friendship, which ends with them completing a blood sacrifice on her. Smoke is a talented musician, who leaves the love of his life, Wendy, and their ill baby daughter, Eden, in faith he poisons everything he touches. As a little girl, Eden predicts Smoke will fall in love with Echo, and he does, years later. He loves Eden more, however, which seems to end their relationship. Valentine is flirtatious, glamorous and beautiful, and Echo wishes to be just like her. She leaves her behind however, when heading for a new life in New York, where she finally starts painting again. Valentine, after losing her job, turns to prostitution. In New York,
Billy Byrne is a low class American born in Chicago's ghetto. He grows up a thief and a mugger. "Billy was a mucker, a hoodlum, a gangster, a thug, a tough." He is not chivalrous nor kind, and has only meager ethics - never giving evidence against a friend or leaving someone behind. He chooses a life of robbery and violence, disrespecting those who work for a living. He has a deep hatred for wealthy society. He trains as a prizefighter but can not stop drinking. When falsely accused of murder, he flees to San Francisco and is shanghaied aboard a ship. Ironically, enforced sobriety, brutal ship's discipline and productive work improves him. The ship's secret mission is soon enacted - the hijacking of a specific yacht to take a millionaire's daughter, Barbara Harding, for ransom. Billy Byrne brutally beats her suitor, Billy Mallory, leaving him for dead. "He knew that she looked down upon him as an inferior being. She was of the class that addressed those in his walk of life as 'my man.'" After Barbara confronts him and calls him a coward, a change begins in Billy Byrne. He saves the life of one kidnapper, Theriere, rather than letting him be washed overboard, though he cannot fathom his own reasons. After a terrible storm, the ship is damaged and only makes it to land with Billy's help at the wheel. He rescues Barbara from the wreck and brings her ashore. Barbara is kidnapped by headhunters descended from
The book starts by detailing a corporation that works to send people to space, by booking them on empty seats on Space Shuttle flights. The third such flight was preparing to launch, carrying retired basketball player MJ (a character closely resembling Michael Jordan) into space. However during the flight something goes wrong and MJ and the pilot die, while the rest of the crew is forced to make an emergency landing. Initially most everyone in the space industry is sued over MJ's death, although most of the charges are later dropped when it is discovered that the explosion was the result of a Chinese attempt to take down the Space Shuttle. China is also found to be responsible for a high altitude nuclear weapon that Pakistan set off. The purpose of this bomb was to wipe out the current network of satellites, apparently in an attempt to cash in with their new presence in space exploration. The bomb also leaves the International Space Station heavily damaged. The rest of the book chronicles a daring rescue attempt to save those still on board the ISS, using mostly theoretical prototype vehicles. The rescue is a success, and the whole crew returns as heroes.
The story begins with a picture of The Oath of Terces. There is a quick preface concerning an ibis bird that stands for a moment, but then crosses the River Nile. Then the story moves to an event happening at more or less, the same moment. An innocent man is being executed moments after inscribing a fateful secret on a piece of papyrus in hieroglyphics. The story then moves forward in time with Cass and Max-Ernest heading to a garage sale Larry and Wayne are having. Cass tells Max-Ernest that she hid the Jester's trunk in a pit behind the firehouse. They lug it out, open it, and discover that it contains a blue ring with a picture of an ibis and a scrap of linen. She discovers that they contain hieroglyphics meaning either "because what Ibis" or "because what Thoth". In the next chapter, Cass and Max-Ernest are on a bus, with Yo-Yoji, discussing their field trip to the Egyptian section of the museum with classmates, Glob and Danielle who is known for his dreadlocks. They meet Danielle's father, Albert 3D (cause he has 3 degrees in different subjects) who shows them a handsome mummy who was executed for some strange reason. Cass reasons that it is the physician from hundreds of years ago, who was executed because of discovering The Secret. Cass, Yo Yoji and Max decide to hang back and examine the mummy. She notices that the blue ring that she found in the Jester's trunk matches
The dashing Simon Templar is hired by a friend in the book publishing trade to protect one of his stars, a secretive recluse named Amos Klein who writes a popular (and lucrative) series of adventure novels about a manly and suave spy. When he arrives at Klein's house in the country, he hears a woman's screams and several gunshots. Rushing to the rescue, he finds a woman tied up and gripping a revolver behind her back. After untying her, he finds out that she is "Amos Klein", a woman who adopted a male nom de plume to increase sales of her novels. She explains that she has to be able to do everything her character in the novels does and that she was just doing some research. The pair are soon kidnapped by a group of people who claim to be members of S.W.O.R.D., the evil organization from Amos Klein's novels. Their leader, "Warlock", the mastermind of the group, believes that Simon Templar must be the Amos Klein he is looking for and that the woman must be his secretary. They then find out what the group of madmen want: for Amos Klein to write the plot of their next grandiose heist.
The book uses false documents to frame the story of one of the worst disasters in American history--the destruction of the town of Chamberlain, Maine by high school student Carietta "Carrie" White. For years, Carrie has been abused at home by her unstable Christian fundamentalist mother, Margaret White. She does not fare much better at Thomas Ewen High School; she has been a social outcast since first grade, and has been the focus of bullying due to her religious beliefs, her outdated clothing and her plain appearance. At the beginning of the novel, Carrie has her first period while showering after gym class. Carrie is terrified, having no concept of menstruation; her mother never spoke to her about it, and she believes that she is bleeding to death. Instead of sympathizing with the frightened Carrie, her classmates throw tampons and sanitary napkins at her. As Carrie is aided by her gym teacher, Rita Desjardin, a light bulb in the shower burns out. The next day, Miss Desjardin viciously berates the girls involved in the shower incident and orders them to serve a week's detention in the gym. One of the girls, Chris Hargensen, refuses to attend and is suspended for three days, and is also banned from Ewen High's prom. Meanwhile, Sue Snell, one of the girls who joined in taunting Carrie, feels remorse for her prior actions and offers to become her friend. Meanwhile, Carrie gradually discovers that she has telekinetic powers, trying to keep them under control. With
In a "shabby" "New York side street" in the mid-1880s, young American Cedric Errol lives with his mother (never named, known only as Mrs. Errol or "Dearest") in genteel poverty after his father, Captain Errol (whose first name was also Cedric), dies. They receive a visit from Havisham, an English lawyer with a message from young Cedric's grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt. With the deaths of his father's elder brothers, Cedric is now Lord Fauntleroy and heir to the Earldom and a vast estate. The Earl wants Cedric to live with him and learn to be an English aristocrat. The Earl despises America and was deeply disappointed with Captain Errol, his favorite son, for marrying an American. So he offers Mrs. Errol a house and income, yet refuses to meet or have anything to do with her, even after she declines the offer of the money. However, the crusty Earl is impressed by the appearance and intelligence of his young American grandson, and charmed by his innocent nature. Cedric, a trusting child, believes his noble grandfather to be a great benefactor, and the Earl cannot bear to disappoint his loving grandson. Thus, the Earl acts as a benefactor to his tenants (as the local populace notices to their delight). A pretender to Cedric's inheritance appears, his mother claiming that he is the son of the Earl's eldest son, but the claim is investigated and disproved with the assistance of Cedric's loyal friends in New York, one of whom &mdash; a
The play is set in Tunis, in what is modern-day Tunisia; the title character, the "renegado" or renegade, is Antonio Grimaldi, who has converted to Islam and become a pirate. The true protagonist of the play, however, is Vitelli, a Venetian gentleman; he has come to Tunis disguised as a merchant, in order to search for his sister Paulina, who has been captured by Grimaldi's pirates and sold into the harem of the city's Viceroy, Asambeg. Even in the harem, however, Paulina's virtue is protected by an amulet she wears around her neck; Asambeg is infatuated with her and treats her with respect. A Turkish princess named Donusa falls in love with Vitelli; when this is discovered, they are both imprisoned in the Black Tower. Donusa tries to convince Vitelli to convert to Islam and marry her, and so gain freedom for them both; Vitelli refuses, and in their ensuing conversation converts Donusa to Christianity. The renegade Grimaldi falls afoul of Asambeg's bad temper, and his career as a pirate is finished. He experiences remorse for his past, and engineers the escape of Vitelli, Donusa, Paulina, and himself from Tunis back to Italy.
On the eve of the Second World War, David Spaulding, a radio voice actor, is recruited by Colonel Ed Pace to run a secret network in Lisbon. The plot advances to 1943. Both the Allies and the Axis find themselves facing key shortages that impede their ability to win the war. The Allies lack gyroscopes capable of operating at high altitudes; thus they are losing an unacceptably high number of bombers. If they do not procure gyroscopes soon, the D-Day invasion of Normandy will need to be postponed. The Germans find themselves without high quality diamonds, which are necessary for the rocket development program at Peenemünde. Ironically, each side has what the other needs: the Allies control access to high quality diamonds from the Belgian Congo; the Germans have a design for a gyroscope able to operate at high altitudes. The German intelligence agency, the Nachrichtendienst, discovers that the Allies are in need of gyroscopes, and proposes an exchange, to take place in neutral territory: Buenos Aires, Argentina. David Spaulding has, in the meantime, become an invaluable spy for the Allies. His Lisbon network ferries agents and defectors back and forth from German occupied territory. He is selected, however, to oversee the receipt of the gyroscopes - critically, he does not know that diamonds are being exchanged for the gyroscopes. The Germans select the exiled industrialist Erich Rhinemann to supervise the exchange at their end. He is a clever choice because, although he is Jewish, he is committed to German
The Vom is an intergalactic intelligence described as a large black blob not unlike a gigantic amoeba, impervious to almost all energy and physical attack. Following years of battle with the Tar-Aiym it has sheltered on a planet where it has gone dormant for 500,000 years, waiting for an opportunity to escape the Tar-Aiym Guardian orbiting in space above it. Carmot MMYM a commander in the AAnn Empire discovers the Vom and brings it to the planet Repler for study at a concealed AAnn base. Lieutenants Kitten “Kitty” Kai-sung, a female human, and Porsupah, a male Tolian, of the Intelligence Arm of the United Church have been sent to Repler to investigate the newly re-established trade in the drug bloodhype (aka jaster, silly salt, brain-up, phinto) as the most deadly and addictive drug in and outside the Humanx Commonwealth. Once on Repler they make contact with the drug trader Dominick Rose who are using Captain Malcolm Hammurabi and his ship, the Umbra, as unwitting transporters of bloodhype. This trio tracks Rose to his base where they encounter Flinx, currently in Rose’s employ, who helps them escape when Rose’s men capture the agents. After reporting Rose’s activities to the United Church, Rose escapes to the AAnn base right before the AAnn lose control of the Vom. Meanwhile, the agents have enlisted the help of Rose’s brother who has discovered the Tar-Aiym Guardian and his machine now orbiting above Repler. With the assistance of Flinx’s psychic abilities the Guardian prepares to fight
Jack Tagger, aged forty-six, is an obituary writer for the Union-Register (a fictitious South Florida newspaper). He becomes excited on seeing a death notice for James Bradley Stomarti aka Jimmy Stoma, lead man of the rock band Jimmy and the Slut Puppies. Jack interviews Jimmy’s widow, pop singer Cleo Rio (her stage name comes from the rumor that she flashed a sight of her pubic area during one of her music videos), who says that Jimmy died in a diving accident in the Bahamas. Cleo also plugs her new upcoming album, with a title song co-written by Jimmy and herself. Jimmy's sister Janet tells him Cleo lied: Jimmy was working on his own comeback album. Jack gets more suspicious when he visits Jimmy’s corpse in a funeral home and find that no autopsy was performed on his body. However, before Jack can call for an official autopsy, Jimmy’s body is cremated. Jack used to be an investigative reporter, but was demoted to the obituary beat after publicly insulting Race Maggad III, the CEO of the newspaper’s publishing company. His ambition is to climb back onto the front page by “yoking my byline to some famous stiff.” He tries to convince his editor, the “impossible” Emma to let him investigate Jimmy’s death, but she refuses. Jack’s current job has taken its toll on his life; writing obituaries all day long, he has become morbidly obsessed with death, especially his own. Each year, Jack obsesses about people who died at his age,
Rite of Passage is told as a flashback by Mia Havero, the daughter of the Chairman of the Ship's Council, after she has completed her own rite of passage, also known as Trial. She has survived for thirty days on a colony planet with minimal supplies as part of her initiation into adulthood on one of several giant Ships that survived Earth's destruction in AD 2041. To prevent overpopulation on the Ships, family units can only produce children with the approval of the Ship's Eugenics Council. The penalty for breaking this rule is exile to a colony world. By the year 2198, Mia Havero is twelve years old and, like most of Ship-bound humanity, regards the colonists as "Mudeaters", a derogatory reference to frontier life on a planet. When she accompanies her father on a trading mission to the planet Grainau, Mia learns from the children of a Grainau official that the feeling is mutual; many on the colony worlds call Ship people "Grabbies" because they take whatever goods they cannot produce on the Ships in return for knowledge and technology (doled out sparingly), the heritage of Earth to which the ship residents have laid claim and which colonists are unable to maintain, being too busy staying alive. When Mia returns to the Ship, in addition to her regular studies, she joins a survival class. Survival class is every thirteen-year-old's preparation for Trial, the Ships' rite of passage into adulthood required within three months of turning fourteen. By requiring adolescents
River God follows the fate of the Egyptian Kingdom through the eyes of Taita, a multi-talented and highly skilled eunuch slave. Taita is owned by Lord Intef and primarily looks after his daughter, Lostris, but also plays a large role in the day to day running of Lord Intef's estate. The Pharaoh of Egypt is without a male heir, and Taita inadvertently causes Pharaoh to take an interest in Lostris. Lostris meanwhile is in love with the soldier Tanus, who unbeknownst to her is hated by her father. Eventually Pharaoh marries Lostris and her father, Lord Intef, reluctantly gives Taita to her as a wedding gift. Meanwhile, Tanus has angered Pharaoh by speaking bluntly about the troubles Egypt is in&nbsp;— most prominently the growing bandit threat which terrorizes all who travel outside of the major cities. Pharaoh condemns him to death for his actions, but is convinced to allow Tanus to redeem himself by attempting to eliminate all the bandits from Egypt within two years. Since his sentence is revealed on the last day of the festival of Osiris, he is to return on that day of the next festival with his task complete or face death by strangulation. Tanus, with the help of Taita, hunts down and captures the leaders of the Shrike bandits. On presenting them to Pharaoh, it is revealed that their leader is Lord Intef. Tanus has his death sentence lifted, but Intef manages to escape before he can be punished for his crimes. After the
Troll Fell tells the story of young Peer Ulfsson, whose shipbuilder father has just died, and who is taken to live with his two wicked uncles, Balder and Grim, in a water mill under the shadow of Troll Fell, a mountain inhabited by trolls. Peer’s uncles make him do all the work around the mill, and at first he despairs, especially when he meets Granny Greenteeth, the sinister waterspirit who lives in the millpond. However, he is aided by the Nis (Norwegian Nisse), a mischievous though unpredictable house-spirit or brownie. His other friends are his dog, Loki, and Hilde, the pretty and confident daughter of Ralf Eiriksson, a nearby farmer. Ralf has sailed away on the Viking ship which Peer’s father built. In his absence, Peer and Hilde discover the plot which his two uncles are hatching: to sell children as slaves to the trolls, in exchange for gold. When Hilde’s little brother and sister are stolen away under cover of a blizzard, Peer and Hilde go together into the tunnels under the mountain in an attempt to bring them back. At the climax of the story, at a troll banquet when the troll king raises the top of the mountain on four red pillars, Peer is faced with the decision either to escape alone, or stay forever under the mountain with Hilde. Meanwhile Ralf has returned from his voyage and, along with his crew and many of the neighbours, forces his way into the troll banqueting hall. There is
In 1839, thirteen-year-old Emmeline Mosher lives on a farm with her family in Fayette, Maine. Times are hard so when Emmeline's paternal aunt suggests that she go to Lowell, Massachusetts to support her family by working in the factories Emmeline dutifully leaves home. When she arrives in Lowell, she is sent to live in a boarding house for young female mill-workers. Emmeline is a good worker. However, she is unable to befriend any of the other girls who look down on her due to her country ways and her relative youth. Lonely, Emmeline is easily seduced by the Irish-born husband of the factory owner's daughter. She becomes pregnant, although she is not immediately aware of her condition. The embarrassed boarding house landlady contacts Emmeline's aunt who lives in the neighboring town of Lynn, Massachusetts and evicts her. Fearful of Emmeline's parents' reaction, Emmeline's aunt and uncle help her conceal the pregnancy. They send letters and Emmeline's savings (which they pass off as her regular salary) to her parents. They also arrange to have Emmeline's unborn child adopted. Emmeline gives birth to what she believes to be a girl; her aunt refuses to tell her what the sex of the child is or any other information about the baby in the belief that it will be easier for Emmeline to give the baby up that way. Emmeline returns home shortly thereafter. Part two of the book picks up more than twenty years in the future. Despite numerous proposals, a middle-aged Emmeline
The novel is set during a ten-year interval, from 68-58 BC, which Julius Caesar spent mainly in Rome, climbing the political ladder and outmaneuvering his many enemies. It opens with Caesar returning early from his quaestorship in Spain, and closes with his epochal departure for the Gallic campaigns. Some of the pivotal moments include Caesar's marriage to Pompeia; his curule aedileship; his narrow election as Pontifex Maximus in 63 BC; his praetorship in 62 BC; his divorce from Pompeia; his governorship of Further Spain; the first time he was hailed imperator on the field by his troops, the blocking of his triumphal parade by Marcus Porcius Cato; the creation of the First Triumvirate, which Caesar formed with Marcus Licinius Crassus and Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus in 60 BC; his betrothal of his daughter Julia to Pompey; his marriage to Calpurnia; and his first consulship, in 59 BC. Reflecting the title, Caesar's divorce and re-marriage come into play, as does his daughter's marriage, his lengthy affair with Servilia and his close relationship with his mother, Aurelia. However, most of the plot is concerned with the political struggles of Caesar's rise to power, his conflict with the conservative 'boni' faction, and his election to each post on the Roman ladder of government.
The novel begins with a deadly explosion in the office of a successful mathematics professor at a midwestern university. The neighbouring office houses Lee, a tenured but near-retirement professor who, until the bomb, is slowly drifting into career obscurity. Tired and solitary after two divorces, Lee suddenly finds himself in the public eye. This draws Lee to the attention of the bomber who reveals in a letter to Lee that he was once a colleague. Although not supplying his identity, events in Lee's early career at graduate school furnish an obvious candidate, and one that reopens unhealed wounds in Lee's life. His first marriage, to the now long-dead Aileen, was actually her second. An affair with Lee broke up Aileen's first marriage to the evangelical Christian Gaither, with the repercussion that Aileen never saw her son again. Lee's indifference to this lost son ultimately cost him his marriage to Aileen, the realisation of which gradually dawns on Lee as his thoughts return to Gaither after the bombing. However, embarrassed by these events in his life, Lee withholds the letter from the police and, now lost in reflections on his early life with Aileen, Lee becomes an increasingly isolated figure, suspiciously so to the authorities. Consequently, when Lee's failure to disclose the letter comes to light, they identify him as a "person of interest", a label that attracts the unwelcome attention of both the press and his suspicious neighbours. Forced by twitchy administrators into a leave of absence from his university,
Vanyel Ashkevron, age sixteen, is the heir to a great estate, Forst Reach, though he does not measure up to what his father, Lord Withen, deems to be a "proper" man. He is devoted to music and cultivating an elegant appearance. Withen sends Vanyel to school in Haven, the capital of Valdemar, under the supervision of Vanyel's aunt Savil. Savil has little interest in Vanyel because he has no psychic or magic powers, but realizes he is not as arrogant as Withen described. Vanyel finds schooling at Haven more suited to his nature, but is told he does not have the Bardic gift, and cannot become a true Bard. Feeling he has lost his dream, he becomes depressed. Vanyel develops feelings for Tylendel Frelennye, one of Savil's protégés. He learns that Tylendel is shay'a'chern, or homosexual. They become lovers and later find they are lifebonded, that is, soulmates. For the first time, Vanyel is truly happy. Tylendel introduces Vanyel to Gala, his Companion; one of the intelligent horse-like creatures that bond with Heralds. Staven, Tylendel's twin brother, is assassinated by a family enemy. Tylendel senses his brother's death and goes mad with grief. Not understanding Tylendel's trauma, Vanyel continues supporting him as he seeks revenge. Using Vanyel's dormant energies Tylendel 'Gates' them to the enemy family. Tylendel casts a complicated spell summoning deadly wyrsa to kill members of the enemy family. Gala repudiates Tylendel and dies sacrificing herself to give time for Heralds to arrive to stop the massacre. Tylendel
Mrs Nesta Ford, in her London hotel room, reveals to her new friend Lord Mountry that she hopes to take her son Ogden on a yachting trip proposed by Mountry, despite her ex-husband having won custody of the boy. As Mountry leaves, Cynthia Drassilis arrives with Ogden, whom she has led away from his father's country house. Mrs Ford rewards Cynthia, but soon Mr Ford's secretary, a Mr Minnick, arrives to recover the stolen child. Cynthia tries to bribe his colleague, Mrs Sheridan, but to no avail, as she believes Nesta's influence has spoiled the boy. After they have gone, Nesta reveals to Cynthia Ogden's past as the 'Little Nugget', and the repeated attempts to kidnap him made by US gangsters. Nesta wishes to call in professional help, but Cynthia persuades her she can still do it, with the help of her new fiancé, a wealthy man called Peter Burns, who she suggests can take up a post at Ogden's new school, posing as a trainee schoolmaster. We meet Peter Burns, and learn that he fell deeply in love, sometime between the ages of 21 and 25, with a Miss Audrey Blake, daughter of an impoverished artist. Though he treated her in a patronizing way, they got engaged, but shortly after the death of her father, she ran off and married another man. This event crushed Burns, once a carefree and selfish youth, and after some years of travel he returned to London chastened, and became engaged to Cynthia Drassilis
Jane Wilkinson, an actress, is suspected of murdering her husband, the fourth Baron Edgware, so that she can marry the Duke of Merton. The plot begins with Jane asking Poirot to convince her husband to agree to a divorce. When Poirot reluctantly does so, Edgware says that he has already agreed to a divorce and written a letter to Jane informing her of the fact. When Poirot reports this to Jane, she denies ever having received such a letter. Lord Edgware is portrayed as a rather unsympathetic character. On the night of the murder, Wilkinson supposedly goes to the Edgware house, announces herself to the butler, and goes into her husband's study. The next day, Lord Edgware is found murdered and Chief Inspector Japp tells Poirot all about it. Numerous friends and acquaintances of Jane have described her as amoral, someone who only thinks of herself and would certainly commit a crime if it would help her get what she wants, without a care for others. But in that morning's newspaper, they discover an article about a dinner party that was held the previous evening where Wilkinson was a guest. At the party, there were thirteen guests at the dinner table. One guest mentioned that thirteen people at table means bad luck for the first guest to rise from the table (hence the alternative title of the book, Thirteen At Dinner) and Jane Wilkinson was the first to rise. Among the guests is an actor named Donald Ross, who spent
The story revolves around the life of Oskar Matzerath, as narrated by himself when confined in a mental hospital during the years 1952-1954. Born in 1924 in the Free City of Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland), with an adult's capacity for thought and perception, he decides never to grow up when he hears his father declare that he would become a grocer. Gifted with a piercing shriek that can shatter glass or be used as a weapon, Oskar declares himself to be one of those "auditory clairvoyant babies", whose "spiritual development is complete at birth and only needs to affirm itself". He retains the stature of a child while living through the beginning of World War II, several love affairs, and the world of postwar Europe. Through all this a tin drum that he received as a present on his third birthday remains his treasured possession, and he is willing to kill to retain it. Oskar considers himself to have two "presumptive fathers" - his mother's husband Alfred, a member of the Nazi Party, and her secret lover and cousin Jan, a Danzig Pole, who is executed for defending the Polish Post Office in Danzig during the German invasion of Poland. Oskar's mother having died, Alfred marries Maria, a woman who is secretly Oskar's first mistress. After marrying Alfred, Maria gives birth to Oskar's possible son, Kurt. But Oskar is disappointed to find that the baby persists in growing up, and will not join him in ceasing to grow at the
During the events of Hyperion, the pilgrims traveled to the Time Tombs while retelling their stories, which proved in each case to have been the storyteller's motive for participating in the final Shrike Cult pilgrimage. At the beginning of the novel, the pilgrims wait as a sandstorm occurs in the valley. Father Hoyt, hoping to die to relieve himself of the intense pain inflicted by his cruciform, staggers to one of the Tombs, the Jade Tomb. Here, he attempts to commit suicide, but is killed by the Shrike before he can do this. Brawne Lamia, who noticed Hoyt's disappearance, traces him to the Jade Tomb and encounters the Shrike. She fires at it with a pistol, but it is unharmed and disappears. Kassad observes these events quietly, hoping to lure the elusive female Moneta and the Shrike into his presence, so that he may confront and potentially kill them. The surviving pilgrims demand that the Consul commands his AI-controlled starship to come the valley, supposedly so that they can use the medical supplies on board to attempt to sustain Rachel Weintraub, who is nearing the day of her death. The Consul is reluctant to do so, but finally relents, only to find that the ship has been placed under interdict by Gladstone and the Hyperion authorities. After this setback, the pilgrims delegate Lamia and the poet Martin Silenus to travel to Keep Chronos and the Poets' City for food. Silenus goes to the Poets' City to complete his "Hyperion Cantos",
In the third Ripley novel, Tom Ripley is a wealthy man in his early thirties. He lives in Villeperce, France, with his wealthy French wife, Heloise. Ripley spends his days living comfortably in his house, Belle Ombre, until an associate, an American criminal named Reeves Minot, asks him if he can commit a murder for him. Ripley &mdash; who "detest[s] murder, unless absolutely necessary" &mdash; turns down the offer of $96,000 for the two hits, and Minot goes back to Hamburg, Germany. The previous month, Ripley had gone to a party in Fontainebleau, where the host, Jonathan Trevanny, a poor British picture framer suffering from myeloid leukemia, insulted him. As revenge, Ripley suggests to Minot that he might try to convince Trevanny to commit the two murders. To ensure that the plan will work, Ripley starts a rumor that Trevanny has only months to live, and suggests that Minot fabricate evidence that Trevanny's leukemia has worsened, though Minot does not. Trevanny, who fears his death will leave his wife and son penniless, accepts Minot's offer of a visit to a German specialist in Hamburg. While in Hamburg, he is persuaded to commit the murder for money. After carrying out the contract &mdash; a shooting at a crowded U-bahn station &mdash; Trevanny insists that he is through as a hired gun. Minot invites Trevanny to Munich, where he visits another doctor. Minot persuades Trevanny to murder a Mafia boss, this time on a train using a garrotte, but he also gives
Unlike most Jeeves and Wooster stories, which only occasional refer to events in the real world, Ring for Jeeves is explicitly set in post-World War II England, where social changes have forced some of those who were formerly members of the idle rich to dispense with their servants and seek employment. Although Bertie Wooster has not yet been reduced to such measures, he has enrolled, prior to the start of the story, in a school that teaches the upper classes how to fend for themselves. In his absence, Jeeves has offered his services to William Egerton Bamfylde Ossingham Belfry, the Earl of Rowcester, who is in poor fortune. The story (in the UK edition) opens with a chance encounter in a pub between the wealthy widow Rosalinda Spottsworth and the white hunter Captain Biggar. The two had met previously on a hunting expedition when Mr Spottsworth was killed. Mrs Spottsworth is on her way to meet the Earl of Rowcester at the invitation of his sister Lady Monica, with the intention of buying Rowcester Abbey. Captain Biggar is in pursuit of a dishonest bookie - he had placed a £5 bet on two horses at high odds and won £3,000, only to discover that the bookie had absconded. At Rowcester Abbey, Monica has arrived with her husband Sir Roderick to assist in the sale of the Abbey, and they are both surprised to find that the Earl is in better fortunes than they had last heard and now able even
Immediately following The Short Victorious War, Honor returns to Manticore as a hero following the victory at Hancock Station, her ship ungoing much needed repairs. Captain Pavel Young, Honor's bitterest enemy, is about to face a court-martial for cowardice before the enemy, punishable by death. Under threat from Young's father, Earl North Hollow, Young is instead demoted and dishonorably discharged from the Navy. Despite the reprieve, North Hollow suffers a stroke and Young becomes the new Earl of North Hollow, and The Star Kingdom officially declares war on the People's Republic of Haven. Seeking revenge on Honor, Pavel Young first tries to discredit her and then hires a professional duelist, former marine Denver Summervale, to challenge Honor's lover Paul Tankersley to a duel. Paul is killed by Summervale while Honor is on Grayson overseeing her Steading and formally being appointed Steadholder. Paul's death is a severe blow to Honor, and she determines to kill Summervale no matter the cost to herself. Several of Honor's friends and comrades track down Summervale to a hidden retreat where they force him to confess to being hired to kill Paul, though this immediately guarantees his immunity to prosecution given the way the confession is extracted. Honor confronts Summervale and goads him into challenging her by calling him a paid assassin before witnessess, and slaughters him in the following duel. Honor then proclaims to the assembled media that Summervale was hired to kill Paul Tankersley and herself by Pavel Young. Young goes into hiding, to
The Gzilt, a civilisation that almost joined the Culture 10,000 years before the novel, have decided to sublime, having had a referendum on the subject and voted in favour of it. Within the novel it is stated that several things happen once a civilisation has made such a decision: strange objects called Presences appear, Scavenger species (less technologically advanced species wishing to claim the departing species' technology) arrive, and if any other civilisation has kept anything quiet with regard to that civilisation it is custom to reveal it to the subliming civilisation before they depart – a setting of the record straight for advanced civilisations. One such species, called the Zidhren, have quite a large secret. They planted the Book of Truth, which the Gzilt revere – and it is implied that the religion made the Gzilt refuse to join the Culture in the past. However, the Zidhren themselves have long since sublimed as a species, meaning the remaining Zidhren – the Zidhren-Remnant – are left to deliver the message. However, when they try to do so the Gzilt warship that meets them decides to keep it quiet, by destroying the Zidhren-Remnanter ship. Meanwhile The Culture has sent ships to both wish the Gzilt well, as they have always been on good terms with the Gzilt, and to keep an eye on the scavenger species arriving. The Mistake Not My Current State Of Joshing Gentle Peevishness For The Awesome And Terrible Majesty Of The Towering Seas Of Ire That Are
There's a new ship of vampirates roaming the seas, leaving a trail of fear and devastation in its wake, led by Sidorio. When a high-profile pirate is slain, the Pirate Federation takes decisive action and dedicates Cheng Li's ship to be the first of many ships to be vampirate assasians. Amongst the dynamic crew is young pirate prodigy Connor Tempest and two of his academy friends. Meanwhile, Connor's twin sister Grace enjoys a bittersweet reunion with their mother, Sally, who has some important and shocking news for her daughter. As Grace uncovers the truth about her family's past, she realizes that she and Connor face a daunting and uncertain future, because Grace and Connor are half vampires and half human. Alas, Sally dies, and Connor then "kills" Lady Lola Lockwood by beheading her with a special sword. Sidoro then tries to kill him but then Cheng Li tells him that Connor is his son. On hearing this shocking piece of news, he brings him on board his ship. He tracks down Grace and keeps her on his ship too and refuses to let the twins leave.
Teacher John Corntel asks his former Eton schoolmate Lynley for help when the 13 year old schoolboy Matthew Whateley has disappeared. Initially Lynley refuses, until Deborah St James finds the naked body of the boy in a churchyard in Stoke Poges. Lynley and Havers start their investigation at Matthew's school Bredgar Chambers, an elite boarding school in West Sussex. They find a letter from Matthew to Jeannie Bonnamy, a daughter of Colonel Bonnamy. Matthew has visited them three days before his death to dine and play chess with the colonel. When Jeannie brought Matthew back to school, they saw 6th form student Chas Quilter in a school minibus, returning from a visit to Cecilia Feld, a girl in Stoke Poges. Chas didn't want anyone to find out about his relationship with Cecilia, and the fact that he was the father of Cecilia's child, which has Apert syndrome. Cecilia herself was transferred from Bredgar Chambers to another school when she was pregnant. Chemistry teacher Emilia Bond tried to burn child pornography photos that belonged to John Corntel; she was in love with Corntel, but found out he was collecting those photos. This explains why Corntel didn't patrol in spite of being duty master. That same evening 6th grader Clive Pritchard nabbed Matthew Whateley to torture him, because Matthew had made a tape recording of Clive bullying schoolboy Harry Morant. When Clive found Matthew dead he felt responsible, unaware that the cause of death was carbon monoxide poisoning. During the investigation there's
Sookie lives with her grandmother, Adele, and has an older brother, Jason. Early in the book, Sookie falls in love with a vampire, a Civil War veteran named Bill Compton. After first meeting Bill, Sookie saves him from some "drainers", people who steal blood from vampires. Bill returns the favor several days later when the drainers attack Sookie. Several murders occur in Bon Temps, and Bill becomes a suspect because many of the bodies have fang marks. Sookie's brother Jason is romantically linked to two of the victims, prompting the Bon Temps police to arrest him. Wanting to help her brother, Sookie asks Bill to take her to a vampire bar called Fangtasia, which is owned by Eric Northman, a vampire sheriff much older and more powerful than Bill. Eric realizes that Sookie's telepathy can be useful and commands Bill to direct Sookie to use her ability to determine the identity of the one embezzling from Fangtasia. Once Sookie identifies Long Shadow, who is Eric's partner and also a vampire, a confrontation ensues that nearly kills Sookie. Eric saves Sookie's life by staking Long Shadow when he attacks her. Meanwhile in Bon Temps, Adele is murdered within the family kitchen. Bill, concerned with Eric's power over him and Sookie, decides to improve his own position within the vampire hierarchy. He asks Bubba, a dim-witted vampire, who was "the man from Memphis", to protect Sookie while he is gone. Sookie discovers that her boss, Sam, is a shape-shifter when she lets
Published in 2007 on the Crown imprint of Random House, Look Me in the Eye describes how Robison grew up as a misfit in the 1960s, at a time when the Asperger syndrome diagnosis did not exist in the United States. The book describes how Robison learns to fit in, without actually knowing why he was different. His situation was made even more complicated at times by his neglectful and abusive father and a some-what crazed mother. After dropping out of school, he had a sudden fascination with sound engineering and electronics. His large interest led to unusual career choices, including time with Pink Floyd's sound company, making special effects for the band Kiss, designing electronic games and toys for Milton Bradley, and starting his own business repairing and restoring expensive cars. Robison finally learned about Asperger syndrome in 1996, at age 39, and his life was transformed by the knowledge. He was first introduced to the public in his brother, Augusten Burroughs', memoir Running with Scissors.
Lauren Hartke and her film director husband, Rey Robles, are occupying an isolated house outside New York City. They have a sparse verbal exchange over breakfast before Rey leaves for work. Later that morning, Rey is found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound in his first wife's Manhattan apartment. An obituary detailing the frequently ambiguous details of Rey's life ensues, where Rey's age (64) is revealed, along with his history of depression and the fact that Lauren had been Rey's third wife. A bereaved Lauren remains alone in the house against the advice of her friends and relatives. She becomes disconnected from the temporal world and from her own body, experiencing frequent and inexplicable déjà vu. Lauren spends the subsequent hours, days and weeks exploring this disconnection. She practices her trademark 'bodywork'-- aerobic and stretching techniques she has developed to prepare her body for performance pieces. Lauren also integrates a sequence of daily rituals, including chopping firewood and gazing for hours at webcam footage of a road in Kotka, Finland. One morning, Lauren hears a noise coming from the upper floor of the house. She goes upstairs to investigate but finds no one there. Lauren goes upstairs again the next day. This time, she finds a man sitting in one of the bedrooms. The man's appearance varies each time Lauren sees him, but in this first incarnation, he is described as "smallish and fine-boned [resembling] a kid, sandy-haired and roused from deep sleep" (43).
This book consists of two main plot threads, which only come together towards the end of the book. The majority of the first half of the story is devoted to a plot where a variety of hominid species from the ring join together to kill a large nest of vampires (the shadow nest) which has been feeding on all of them. Some of the characters are also found in The Ringworld Engineers, as early on in this book Niven tells us that relatively few of the hominids died when Louis Wu and the Hindmost restabilised the ring at the end of the previous book. The second part of the book details the continuing adventures of Louis Wu, who is now aging and ill. Eventually he returns to the Hindmost and is healed, only for the pair of them—and also a Kzin called Acolyte, who is Chmee's son—to be enslaved by a vampire protector. What follows is a power struggle between Protectors on the rim wall and the vampire protectors who have control of the ringworld's defences. In many of the situations in this section of the book Louis, the Hindmost and Acolyte are present only as observers, as it is the Protectors who are the main protagonists of the story.
The two main characters are thinly-veiled versions of two of Farmer's favorite characters, Tarzan and Doc Savage. Called "Lord Grandrith" and "Doc Caliban", respectively, the two are recognizable as the iconic characters, but still unique. The two, half-brothers with the same father (the infamous Victorian era serial killer, Jack the Ripper) share a horrible affliction thanks to the powerful elixir that gives them near-eternal life. At the start of the novel they have discovered that they can no longer engage in sexual activity except during acts of violence (their penises become erect only during an act of violence) and they ejaculate after taking lives. By the end of the novel, Grandrith and Caliban will have grappled with each other in the nude, punching, clawing and biting, each of them sporting massive erections. The novel begins with Grandrith under attack by three parties: the Kenyan army, a group of Albanian mercenaries, and Doc Caliban who believes that Grandrith has killed Caliban's cousin and one true love. In addition, both Caliban and Grandrith have been summoned for their annual appear before The Nine, a powerful group of near immortals, who have given them both the secret of immortality in return for their obedience. However, Caliban and Grandrith ultimately find a common enemy among the Nine that is revealed to be controlling the world, and to have been manipulating their own lives, and indeed, the entire preceding battle between the two. The two iconic warriors vow to defeat the Nine together—that tale is
The Hunter, an alien lifeform (when not inside another being, resembling a four-pound green jellyfish) with the ability to live in symbiosis with and within another creature, is in hot pursuit of another of his kind. Both crash their ships into Earth, in the Pacific Ocean, and both survive the crashes. The Hunter makes its way to shore (its erstwhile host having been killed in the crash) and takes up residence in the nearest human being it can find (as it turns out, fifteen-year-old Robert Kinnaird) without letting the human being know. By the time it has figured out enough of what goes on inside a human being to look through Bob's eyes, it is shocked to find itself within an air vessel, being carried further away from its quarry every second. As it happens, Bob is simply returning to a New England boarding school from his home on an industrial island in the Western Pacific. Once Bob arrives at school, the Hunter sees no alternative to communicating with his host. After initial attempts produce panic in the boy, the Hunter eventually finds a way to convince Bob of his presence. Bob is very accepting of his guest, perhaps beyond what would be expected of a teenage boy who learns another entity is inside him, observing his every move. The two plot a way to return home. The puzzle distracts Bob from his studies, leading to a decline in grades that the school authorities ascribe to homesickness, and he is
The story is primarily set in the Salinas Valley, California, between the beginning of the 20th century and the end of World War I, though some chapters are in Connecticut and Massachusetts, and the story goes as far back as the American Civil War. In the beginning of East of Eden, before introducing his characters, John Steinbeck carefully establishes the setting with a description of the Salinas Valley in Central California. Then he outlines the story of the warmhearted inventor and farmer Samuel Hamilton and his wife Liza, immigrants from Ireland. He describes how they raise their nine children on a rough, infertile piece of land. As the Hamilton children begin to grow up and leave the nest, a wealthy stranger, Adam Trask, purchases the best ranch in the Valley. Adam Trask's life is seen in a long, intricate flashback. We see his tumultuous childhood on a farm in Connecticut and the brutal treatment he endured from his younger but stronger half-brother, Charles. As a young man, Adam spent his time first in the military and then wandering the country. He was caught for vagrancy, escaped from a chain gang and burgled a store for clothing to use as a disguise. Later he wired Charles for 100 dollars to pay for the clothes he stole. After Adam finally made his way home to their farm, Charles revealed that their father had died and left them an inheritance of $50,000 each. Charles is torn with fear that his father did not
The hero is Matthew Dodd, a rifleman in the 95th Regiment of Foot of the British Army. The novel takes place in Portugal early in the Peninsular War. The British had sent a small force of about 10,000 men to the aid of her ally, Portugal. Rather than face the overwhelming numbers of the opposing French forces under Marshal André Masséna, the British commander, Lord Wellington, secretly constructed the Lines of Torres Vedras and withdrew behind them, leaving the French force no options but to lay siege to the lines, or retreat. For three months the French encamped outside the lines, waiting for reinforcements from the other side of the Tagus River, but in the end hunger and disease forced them to retreat. During the course of the British withdrawal, Dodd becomes separated from his regiment and is cut off from the British forces, with the entire French army between him and the lines at Torres Vedras. In an attempt to get around the French, he heads for the Tagus River, hoping to follow it to Lisbon. However, the French are there ahead of him and he has no option but to live off the land and try to survive. He joins a group of Portuguese guerrillas and spends two months with them, harassing the encamped French army, killing sentries and laying ambushes for scouting parties and supply animals. After two months of guerrilla fighting, Dodd hears artillery fire from about ten miles away. He can tell by the sound
Set towards the end of WWI, in 1918, it tells the story of a shy young railway employee and amateur actor from Milwaukee, named Paul Peachy. Having realised that his wife no longer loves him, Paul enlists as a private in the U.S. Army and boards ship for the trenches of France. Peachy finds temporary solace in friendship amid horrors of war, but is soon captured by the enemy Germans in No Man's Land. His only chance of survival is to impersonate one of the enemy's most famous spies (as a child of immigrants, he is a fluent German speaker). As the urbane and accomplished spy Harry Stroller, Peachy is feted as a hero by the German top brass and gains access to a previously unimagined world of sumptuous living. But his new role also reveals inner reserves of courage and ingenuity he never knew he possessed, as the mounting suspicions of his German hosts force Peachy into ever more outrageous deceptions. In this atmosphere of smoke and mirrors, Paul Peachy falls in love with Annie, a beautiful French courtesan, who seems to see through his artful disguise. The ending is a surprise of twists and clever plotting.
The narrative follows the age-old pattern of separate stories embedded within a primary story, as in the Panchatantra, the Arabian Nights and the Canterbury Tales. Each of the stories is linked to a different piece of furniture in an antique shop, and the question arises as to whether the stories are pure invention ("a pack of lies") or could perhaps be true - and what their being "true" would mean about the narrator. A young man with the unlikely name of MCC Berkshire ("from Reading") follows Ailsa home from the library and talks himself into an unpaid job in her mother's run-down antique shop - all he asks is somewhere to sleep and books to read. He has a wonderful way of assessing the customers and suiting the provenance he gives the furniture to their interests. Moreover, he seems to adapt himself - his accent, his manner, his personal history - to the story being told, which also seems to be inspired by the book he has just been reading. When chided by Mrs Povey for telling lies, he responds: "'Not lies, madam.... Fiction. That's the thing to give 'em. That's the thing everyone wants. Fiction, madam! " Ailsa and Mrs Povey, while grateful to MCC for his help and enjoying his company, often have doubts about him, while Uncle Clive, on a brief visit, is positively hostile. After the Poveys' financial problems are suddenly solved, literally from the pages of a book, the scene is set for MCC's departure.
At the age of twenty, the young Alleyne, son of Edric, intelligent, skilled, and well-liked, though sheltered and naive, leaves the Catholic abbey where he has been raised and goes out to see the world, in accordance with the terms of his father's will. The same day, the abbot banishes John of Hordle, for worldly behavior: great appetite, teasing, and flirting. At the Pied Merlin inn, they make friends with veteran archer Sam Aylward. He has returned to England from France to recruit for the White Company of mercenaries, and brings an request for Sir Nigel Loring of Christchurch to take command. Aylward and John continue to Christchurch, while Alleyne detours to visit his older brother, the "socman" or landlord of Minstead, whose fierce reputation has grown to wickedness. Meeting the first time since Alleyne was an infant, the socman is threatening a lovely maiden, and still furious their father gave three hides (80-120 acres) to the monastery for the boy's support. Maude bids flee the dogs, and laughs when Alleyne states that his intentions to rejoin his friends will lead to Sir Loring. Indeed, Sir Loring takes Alleyne as squire and tutor to his daughter, the same Maude, and two other damsels. When the men must depart for France, the young couple admit their love, only to each other. Enroute to Gascony, our heroes destroy pirates, then report to the court of the Prince of Wales. After adventures fearful and funny, the valiant fighters lead the White Company to
Casper the Commuting Cat is the story of an adventurous cat, Casper, that the author, Susan Finden had adopted from a rescue centre in 2002. She describes how Casper liked to wander from her house and was not afraid of people or traffic. Casper used to walk into office blocks and doctors' consulting rooms and find a chair to sleep on. Then he started queuing with people at a bus stop across the road from his house and boarding buses that took his fancy. He would curl up on a seat and go to sleep, and when the bus had completed its 11 mile round-trip to the city centre and returned to his bus stop, the driver would let him off. Casper's commuting habits made him a celebrity and Finden describes the world-wide media attention that she and Casper received. In January 2010 Casper died after being struck by a speeding taxi while crossing the road outside his house. Finden tells how she coped with her loss and the renewed media attention that followed. In addition to covering Casper's exploits, Finden includes in the book a brief story of her own life, and discusses the other cats she had adopted from rescue centres. Also present are several light-hearted chapters "written" by Casper from "the other side" in which he gives advice to other cats on how to handle humans, catch a bus, and deal with the media.
The novel takes place in 1966. However, it occurs in a world with an alternative history. The Plantagenet kings survived and rule a large Anglo-French Empire. In addition, around AD 1300 the laws of magic were discovered and magical science developed. The physical sciences were never pursued. The society looks early Victorian, though medical magic is superior to our medicine. The book uses the conventions of a detective story. The protagonist is Lord Darcy, Chief Investigator for the Duke of Normandy. This Sherlock Holmes-like figure is assisted by Master Sean O’Lochlainn, a forensic sorcerer. The novel is a locked room mystery, which takes place at a wizards’ convention. Garrett delights in puns. Analogues of Nero Wolfe, Archie Goodwin, James Bond and Gandalf the Grey appear. Lord Darcy also appears in several other novellas and short stories by Garrett, but this is Garrett's only novel-length Lord Darcy story. Michael Kurland has written two further novels set in the Lord Darcy universe.
A young man awakens in an emergency escape pod finding himself on the surface of an asteroid and having no memory of his identity or how he ended up in this situation. He adopts the name 'Derec' from the name on his space suit, which he later finds out is only the suit's manufacturer. He is soon rescued by a colony of robots who are mining the asteroid in search of something hidden there. Their mission is surrounded in the utmost secrecy such that Derec is not told what they searching for nor allowed to communicate with the outside world. However, the robots send a message to their commander asking what to do and continue their work. Derec has limited freedom to explore the subterranean operation and is amazed at the level of engineering design in the robots and their operation. Likewise, he begins to realize that he himself is well trained in robotics, both technically and psychologically (pertaining to the Three Laws of Robotics). Eventually, a passing alien pirate ship receives the robot's signal and attacks the colony. Due to the secrecy of the robot's mission, their orders dictate they must destroy themselves upon discovery. However, doing that would jeopardize Derec's life and thus the robots would be failing to obey the First Law of Robotics. Derec escapes to the surface of the asteroid using a modified 'augment' (augmented worksuit) and attempts to board the alien ship. While the alien ship bombards the asteroids' surface, the robots below are
Pharaun and Ryld journey to a tavern, where Ryld plays sava (a chess-like game) while Pharaun goes to the basement, where various female drow captives are available for males to do with as they see fit with. Pharaun talks with one of them who reveals the name of several elopers. While he is there, Ryld is attacked by other males whom he has taught. Afterwards, the two companions talk about the quest and decide the males are eloping because of the unusually harsh rule of the females in the last few weeks. Pharaun reveals that he has reason to believe that Lolth is gone and as such the females cannot use divine spells anymore, and are limited to scrolls and magic items. Ryld, though skeptical at first, eventually believes him. They learn of an uprising among the lower class creatures led by a mysterious prophet, and decide to pretend that they support the elopers. They kill a group of Drow to prove their "dedication" to the cause and are reluctantly taken in. They learn that the mastermind behind the rebellion is an evil illithid lich (called an "alhoon" or an "illithilich"), and that when he sends a mental signal, all the lower creatures will attack. While this is all happening, Gromph Baenre is sending various demons to attack Quenthel Baenre, all taking the guise of various aspects of Lloth, e.g. a demon spider, a demon of chaos, a darkness demon, and others. While this happens, a group of students at
Jeremy Fisher is a frog who lives in a damp little house amongst the buttercups at the edge of a pond. His larder and back passage are "slippy-sloppy" with water, but he likes getting his feet wet; no one ever scolds and he never catches cold. One day, Jeremy finds it raining and decides to go fishing. Should he catch more than five minnows, he will invite his friends to dinner. He puts on a Macintosh and shiny goloshes, takes his rod and basket, and sets off with "enormous hops" to the place where he keeps his lily-pad boat. He poles to a place he knows is good for minnows. Once there, he sits cross-legged on his lily-pad and arranges his tackle. He has "the dearest little red float". His rod is a stalk of grass and his line a horsehair. An hour passes without a nibble. He takes a break and lunches on a butterfly sandwich. A water beetle tweaks his toe, and rats rustling about in the rushes force him to seek a safer location. He drops his line into the water and immediately has a bite. It is not a minnow but little Jack Sharp, a stickleback. The fish escapes but not before Jeremy pricks his fingers on Jack's spines. A shoal of little fishes come to the surface to laugh at Jeremy. Jeremy sucks his sore fingers, but a trout rises from the water and seizes him with a snap (Mr. Jeremy screams, "OW-OW-OW!!!"). The trout
Darth Bane, still on the planet Ruusan, finds his apprentice Zannah, a girl only 10-years-old. Together they decide to see the effects of the thought bomb and journey into the catacombs where it lies. Inside they find a boy, Tomcat, who is Zannah's cousin; she spares him by cutting his hand off. Then Darth Bane attacks the remnants of an old Sith camp, inhabited by former mercenaries. He slays the majority of them, allowing two to survive. At the camp, he finds a scroll telling him the location of the tomb of former Sith Lord, Freedon Nadd. Then he travels to a ship and leaves the planet, charting a course for Dxun, a moon of the planet Onderon, but makes Zannah stay to find her own way to the planet, and meet him on Onderon, saying it is a test and a lesson. Meanwhile, the surviving mercenaries are found by Jedi Johun Othone and his group of soldiers that travel back to Ruusan to find any survivors of the thought bomb. Johun takes the mercenaries back to the main ship to stand trial. The remaining soldiers happen to find Zannah. On the way back to the main ship, she kills the crew, and plots a course to Onderon. Bane then flies to Dxun and enters the tomb. Upon touching the Sith holocron, he is attacked by orbalisks who attach onto his body. He learns that the orbaliks cannot be removed, but will provide an almost impenetrable armor and give his
In the near future, Christianity has dominated everything, including politics, television, the Internet, and film. The leaders of the semi-theocracy include Reverend Jimmy, a televangelist who is the spiritual advisor to the President, and Pastor Bob, a laid-back reverend who is obsessed with golf and competes with Jimmy for spiritual dominance. Ironically, though Jimmy says he has spoken to God about almost everything, their teachings are the opposite of Jesus Christ's ideas of peace, love, and forgiveness towards everyone. Jimmy even claims on his program that bombing Europe will bring the Second Coming. However, a jaded ex-reporter, Johnny Greco, bitter towards Jimmy, has already found it, in an Irish-Hispanic Catholic named Jay, who performs incredible miracles of healing sick people, preaches against what Christianity has become, and values peace, tolerance, and love for all humans. Dismissive at first, he soon begins to believe in what Jay is saying, and begins to think that Jay truly is "the real deal". Unfortunately for Jay, things happen as they previously did and Jay, some of his closest apostles and Revrend Jim (who Jay converts) are killed. However, Jay's apostles continue to spread the word of his actions and teachings and form a new religion. The book ends: THE END AND THE BEGINNING
The story of Guy Fawkes starts in summer 1605, when a plot to blow up Parliament was underway. The first book of the story begins with the execution of Catholic priests in Manchester. During the execution, Elizabeth Orton madly raves before being chased by an officer overseeing the execution. In order to avoid capture, she leaps into the River Irwell. She is pulled up by Humphrey Chetham, a Protestant member of the nobility, and Guy Fawkes, a Catholic. After she is brought out of the water, she predicts that both men will be executed before she dies. The novel transitions to Lancashire and the Radcliffe family. William Radcliffe is a supporter of the plot, and his daughter, Viviana Radcliffe, is revealed to love both Chetham and Fawkes. Fawkes travels to John Dee, an alchemist, who is able to call forth the ghost of Orton. The ghost warns Fawkes again. This is not the only time Fawkes is warned, as he receives a vision from God that the plot will end in disaster. During this time, the Radcliffe family is exposed as hiding two priests, which provokes the destruction of the home by the British Army. Having lost their home, the conspirators in the plot travel to London. In the second book, Fawkes and Viviana Radcliffe marry, and she tries to convince her new husband not to continue with the plot. Fawkes argues that he is bound to follow through with events. The book ends when the conspiracy to blow up
This is the first novel in the series and introduces the main characters as well as establishing relationships that continue and grow throughout the whole series. Falco stumbles upon a conspiracy in the trading of silver ingots, but not before it claims the life of a young girl (Sosia Camillina) whom Falco meets and is smitten with. Hired by the young girl's uncle, a senator, to find out who murdered her, and by the Roman Emperor Vespasian, to uncover the conspiracy, Falco finds himself on the next boat to Britain. Once there he meets a lady way out of his class, Helena Justina, daughter of the Senator who hired him. At first sight it is mutual loathing, he hates her class and she hates his prejudice. Finding himself working down a silver mine, acting as a mine slave, Falco learns the meaning of hate, pain and abuse. After being rescued by Helena and a friendly centurion, Falco heads back to Rome, as the reluctant charge of the even more reluctant Helena. Naturally, after spending so much time together, lots of arguments, misunderstandings and denial, Falco and Helena fall in love (subsequently consummated in a horse stable in a public garden). Eventually, Falco sorts out the case, and only has to bring the culprits to justice. However, there is no justice when one of the culprits is Domitian, the Emperor's very own wayward son. As for the other culprits, only one remains alive, and that person is very close to the
The Remains of the Day tells, in first person, the story of Stevens, an English butler who has dedicated his life to the loyal service of Lord Darlington (mentioned in increasing detail in flashbacks). The novel begins with Stevens receiving a letter from a former colleague, Miss Kenton, describing her married life, which he believes hints at an unhappy marriage. The receipt of the letter coincides with Stevens having the opportunity to revisit this once-cherished relationship, if only under the guise of investigating the possibility of re-employment. Stevens's new employer, a wealthy American named Mr Farraday, encourages Stevens to borrow his car to take a well-earned break, a "motoring trip". As he sets out, Stevens has the opportunity to reflect on his immutable loyalty to Lord Darlington, on the meaning of the term "dignity", and even on his relationship with his own late father. Ultimately Stevens is forced to ponder the true nature of his relationship with Miss Kenton. As the book progresses, increasing evidence of Miss Kenton's one-time love for Stevens, and of his for her, is revealed. Working together during the years leading up to the Second World War, Stevens and Miss Kenton fail to admit their true feelings towards each other. All of their recollected conversations show a professional friendship which at times came close to crossing the line into romance, but never dared to do so. Miss Kenton, it later emerges, has been married for over 20 years and therefore is no longer Miss Kenton but
The Wrongs of Woman begins in medias res with the upper-class Maria's unjust imprisonment by her husband, George Venables. Not only has he condemned Maria to live in an insane asylum, but he has also taken their child away from her. She manages to befriend one of her attendants in the asylum, an impoverished, lower-class woman named Jemima, who, after realizing that Maria is not mad, agrees to bring her a few books. Some of these have notes scribbled in them by Henry Darnford, another inmate, and Maria falls in love with him via his marginalia. The two begin to communicate and eventually meet. Darnford reveals that he has had a debauched life; waking up in the asylum after a night of heavy drinking, he has been unable to convince the doctors to release him. Jemima tells her life story to Maria and Darnford, explaining that she was born a bastard. Jemima's mother died while she was still an infant, making her already precarious social position worse. She was therefore forced to become a servant in her father's house and later bound out as an apprentice to a master who beat her, starved her, and raped her. When the man's wife discovers that Jemima is pregnant with his child, she is thrown out of the house. Unable to support herself, she aborts her child and becomes a prostitute. After the death of the gentleman keeping her, she becomes an attendant at the asylum where Maria is imprisoned. In chapters seven
Ricky Bianca needs to know why his father committed suicide when he was a child on Christmas Eve. Unfortunately, his father at the time was fighting the Mafia from controlling the funeral industry. The Mafia sent a friend to deliver a letter on that holy night and after reading the letter, he blew his brains out. The letter was never found and no one but the head Don, Salvatore Biganti, knows what it contained. When Ricky heard the blast, he ran to his father's aid only to see him on the floor bleeding profusely from his temple. He knelt in a pool of blood and held his father's head, unsuccessfully trying to stop the bleeding. Subsequently, Ricky has no recollection of the event but suffers from wild nightmarish hallucinations. His mother soon thereafter died in an upstate sanitarium of severe depressive catatonia. His aunt in Connecticut raises him and after twenty years he decides to return to New York as a Funeral Director, back to the industry that holds the secret. His Psychology Professor friend at college advised him to get the answers his mind so desperately needs, before his hallucinogenic demons devour him. His innocence is lost as this cryptic industry leads him through a maze of deceit, greed and evil. Subsequently, he gets caught in an intricate spider’s web of organized crime, secret cults and unspeakable atrocities. The truth is, the known is worse than the unknown and it sends him spiraling down into a hell of fiendish
As the airship Leviathan travels over Russia, Alek, Deryn, and Newkirk are in the middy's mess with perspicacious loris pet Bovril, talking about great circle routes. Alek mentions Deryn's father was an airman, but Newkirk says that the airman was Deryn's uncle. A two-headed messenger eagle from czar heads towards the bridge, interrupting their discussion. A message lizard sends Deryn to the bridge and Newkirk to the cargo deck. Alek goes with Deryn, and there Dr Barlow tells them to take the bird to the rookery and feed it. Deryn nearly confesses her secret to Alek, but then says she cannot, and claims a fencing lesson. Cout Volger tries to expose her gender unless she discloses the imperial message. Deryn convinces Volger to desist, so as not to shake the confidence of Alek, who admires her as a boy. The imperial message to pick up a cargo from a fighting bear, but the dried beef is overloaded by metal parts and tools, and drags Deryn and Newkirk down into the trees until Newkirk says tip to the side, and the crew dump clart (waste water) and other supplies. Dr Barlow orders Alek, with Klopp, Hoffman, and Bauer, to assemble the metal contraption and keep it secret. The loris shows them how it detects metal with Barlow's necklace. In Tunguska, Siberia, the area has been destroyed, trees are flattened and pointed in one direction, and many stripped corpses include an organic airship, smaller than theirs. By dropping the beef at a
When siblings Julian (aged 12) Dick (aged 11) and Anne (aged 10) learn that they cannot go on their usual summer holiday trip to Polseath and they are invited to their unknown cousin Georgina's house to stay with her mother (Aunt Fanny) and father (Uncle Quentin) who is a scientist. We learn Georgina (aged 11) is a very difficult and bossy child. She desperately wants to be a boy. She dresses like one, behaves like one and wears her hair short and curly like one. She answers to George (short for Georgina) and will not answer to her real name because it is a girl's name. When George's cousins come to stay she introduces them to her beloved dog Timmy, whom she has had since he was a puppy. George tells her cousins how the big island on the beach belongs to her. It is called Kirrin Island and was passed down through her family. On their way to the island they see a shipwreck under the water and George explains how her great-great-great grandfather was travelling on it along with lots of other men. He was transporting gold from one country to another. The boat was shipwrecked during a storm and George tells her cousins how divers have been down into the boat to try and find the gold but they haven't. All four children agree the gold must have been unloaded somewhere before the ship sank. They arrive at the island, along with Timmy, and when Timmy chases
Tracy and Cam often argue about anything, including Tracy's new school, where she has a ghastly class teacher, whom she has christened Mrs "Emesis" Bagley. She hates her. Most of her classmates spread rumors about her mum leaving her on purpose. Tracy says that her mum has to leave because she is a movie star in Hollywood. Tracy decides to exclude herself and go to her own secret house. After a few days she discovers she's not the only one who excluded herself from school as she meet two new friends, Alexander and Football. Alexander is a feeble little boy, whereas Football is the complete opposite, very burly, strong and large. Like Tracy, both boys have family problems: Alexander's dad hates him, and Football has a mother who is always going on at him; his dad has left, and keeps promising to take him to a football match, but he never does. They all stay at a secret house and play dares day after day, including one where Tracy hangs her underwear on a tree. Suddenly, Tracy's mum, Carly, appears out of the blue, saying she wants her back. Tracy is allowed to stay with her for a weekend, where her mum showers her with expensive gifts. Cam is upset about losing Tracy, but Tracy is hell-bent on going to live with her mother forever. However, when she goes to her mother's for a second time, her mother leaves her on her own for hours and hours while she attends
Over a persistent ticking sound, Jon introduces himself: “The sound you are hearing is not a technical problem. It is not a musical cue. It is not a joke. It is the sound of one man's mounting anxiety. I... am that man.” Jon is an aspiring composer for musical theatre, who lives in SoHo, New York. He is nearing his 30th birthday and worries about his aging and lack of achievement (“30/90”). Michael, a friend of Jon’s since childhood, gave up acting to pursue a more lucrative career as a research executive. Susan, Jon's girlfriend, is a dancer who teaches ballet to “wealthy and untalented children.” Susan and Jon discuss the upcoming 30th birthday party that she is throwing for him. She pressures him to play “Happy Birthday to You” to himself on the piano at the party, but he is hesitant because it reminds him of the aging aspect of birthdays. Michael wants to schedule a job interview for Jon with Michael’s firm. Again, Jon is hesitant, but agrees to think it over. Later, on the roof of his apartment building, Jon reveals that he is also nervous about an upcoming workshop of his newest musical, SUPERBIA. Susan comes to join him; he comments on her dress and how beautiful it makes her look (“Green Green Dress”). The next morning, Jon is awake early. Susan asks him about the possibility of leaving New York. Susan wants to raise a family and doesn’t view that as compatible with Jon’s “starving
The Earthman Elijah Baley (the detective hero of the previous Robot books), has died nearly two centuries earlier. During these two centuries, the balance of forces in the galaxy has changed dramatically. Inspired partly by Baley's adventures in space (on the "Spacer" worlds of Solaria and Aurora), Earth-people have overcome their stagnation and agoraphobia, and embarked on a new wave of space colonization, using faster-than-light drive to reach distant planets throughout the Milky Way Galaxy, beyond the earlier "Spacer" worlds. These newly colonized worlds are clearly distinct from the earlier "Spacer" ones, and their inhabitants, calling themselves "Settlers" rather than "Spacers", revere Earth as their mother-world. Meanwhile, Baley's memory remains in the mind of his former lover, Gladia Delmarre, a "Spacer", who has a centuries-long lifespan, as opposed to the seven or eight decades that Earth people (such as Baley) live. It is discovered that Solaria, the homeworld of Gladia, and the 50th-established of the Spacer planets, has been abandoned and has become empty of all inhabitants (except for millions of robot servants, which have been left behind). Gladia then meets a seventh-generation descendant of Baley's, Daneel Giskard (or D.G.) Baley, a Settler-Trader. He asks for Gladia's help in visiting Solaria, in order to unravel the mysterious destruction of several "Settler" spaceships making landings there, and also with the mission of reclaiming the abandoned robots. Gladia agrees to go, and is accompanied by the positronic robots R. Daneel Olivaw and R. Giskard Reventlov. [R. Giskard has secret telepathic powers about
The book is the story of a young man, William Crimsworth, and is a first-person narrative from his perspective. It describes his maturation, his loves and his eventual career as a professor at an all-girls school. The story starts off with a letter William has sent to his friend Charles, detailing his refusal to his uncle's proposals to become a clergyman, as well as his first meeting with his rich brother Edward. Seeking work as a tradesman, William is offered the position of a clerk by Edward. However, Edward is jealous of William's education and intelligence and treats him terribly. By the actions of the sympathetic Mr. Hunsden, William is relieved of his position and gains a new job at an all-boys boarding school in Belgium. The school is run by the friendly M. Pelet, who treats William kindly and politely. Soon, William's merits as a professor reach the ears of the headmistress of the neighboring girls school. Mlle. Reuter offers him a position at her school, which he accepts. Initially captivated by Mlle. Reuter, William begins to entertain ideas of falling in love with her, only to have them crushed when he overhears her and M. Pelet talk about their upcoming marriage. Slightly heartbroken, he now treats Mlle. Reuter with a cold civility and begins to see the underlying nature of her character. Mlle. Reuter, however, continues to try to draw William back in, pretending to be benevolent and concerned. She goes so far as to plead him to
MacDonald begins her book with a summary description of her childhood and family. Her father was an engineer, and moved frequently with his family throughout the West. Her mother's theory that a wife must support her husband in his career comes into play when the author marries a friend of her brother ("Bob") who soon admits that his dream is to leave his current office job and start a chicken ranch. Knowing nothing about ranching, but eager to support her husband, the author encourages the dream but is unprepared for the primitive conditions that exist on the ranch he purchases. From this "set up" the book turns to anecdotal stories that rely upon the proverbial "fish out of water" tales that pit MacDonald against her situation and her surroundings, such as the struggle to keep up with the need for water, which needs to be hand carried from a pond to the house until a tank is installed or keeping a fire going in "Stove" or the constant care that chicks need. At one point a guest expresses envy of MacDonald and her husband, as she thinks they live a life full of fresh air and beautiful scenery, which is then followed by MacDonald pointing out that while the guest had lounged in bed that morning, she and her husband had been up before sunrise working for several hours, and then again the couple had stayed up long into the night after the guest had gone to bed.
Set in post-war London and at Elstree Studios, Hertfordshire, the "mysterious affair" of the title is the murder of ageing actress Cora Rutherford on the set of the film which she hopes will mark her comeback to the silver screen. As it happens, mystery writer Evadne Mount, an old friend of Cora's, and Chief-Inspector Trubshawe, retired, formerly of Scotland Yard, are watching the shooting of the scene in which the actress drinks from a champagne glass whose content, unbeknownst to everyone except the murderer, has been laced with a strong poison. Right from the start of the investigation, a neat group of suspects presents itself to the police. However, although each of them would have had means and opportunity to kill Cora Rutherford, none of them has the slightest motive to have done so. It takes amateur sleuth Evadne Mount several days to figure out the solution to the crime, and only by linking up the murder with an accident which happened some time previously, and eventually by using a decoy, is she able to solve the case.
Spenser, while relaxing at a park with his love interest, Susan Silverman, reflects on some experiences in his life as a youth, before becoming a detective. The narrative unfolds as a conversation between himself and Silverman. Spenser conveys that he grew up in an all-male household, his mother dying immediately before he was delivered by caesarean section. His household consisted of himself, his father, and his two maternal uncles. They were all uneducated, but eager to learn, worked in construction, and boxed from time to time to earn extra money. His uncles taught him to box from a very young age, three years old. They also read volumes of classic novels to him at night. The main narrative conveys Spenser's adventures with a girl, Jeannie Haden. Jeannie was about Spenser's age, but was just a friend. Her father was an abusive drunk. One day Spenser saw her in her father's car, mouthing the words "Help" over and over again. Spenser, along with his dog, Pearl, follows the car and, eventually, Jeannie's father's boat down a river. He locates her and her father on a small island in the river, next to a lean-to. After a brief encounter with her father, Luke, Spenser is able to rescue Jeannie some time later. They escape downriver on Spenser's rowboat, eventually leading Luke Haden to his death. Spenser's father and uncles tell him he "did good" and needn't report the death, or his role in it. But he does, but the local law enforcement
Hal Ambler, a former Consular Operations agent in the Political Stabilization Unit, is kept heavily medicated and closely watched in a psychiatric facility just off the US coast. However, Ambler is unique amongst the other patients in the Parrish Island psychiatric facility, because he is perfectly sane. With the help of a sympathetic nurse, Ambler manages to clear his mind of the drug-induced haze and stage a daring escape off the island. Although he is desperate to discover who put him on Parrish Island and why, the world he returns appears to have conveniently forgotten him. Friends and associates no longer recognize him, no official records of his existence are to be found, and the face he sees in the mirror is not his own. After contacting several old associates who do not recognize him or even have any recollection of his existence, Ambler goes to a cabin in certain part of country which had always been his lone solace even during his days as a field agent. He arrives to find no cabin, and the landscape looked such that there hadn't been any before. A tranquillizer dart armed with carfetanyl then strikes him, but does not affect his thought processes severely . He tracks down the sniper and forces the sniper, a freelance operative, to give him authorisation codes. However, before the operative can be milked for more information, he is killed by a sniper whose single bullet also grazed Ambler's neck. He then contacts the agency that is
The Schwartzes live their ordinary lives in the aptly named (and fictional) small town of Bellwether, Connecticut. When she thinks her two children do not need her any longer, Lila Schwartz, a sexually active woman, leaves behind her family, calls herself Lila Munroe and moves to California, where she trains, and later works, as a lawyer. Faced with the dual challenge of having to raise two teenage kids while remaining successful in his demanding job as a publicist and speech writer, Bernard Schwartz more and more relies on medication to cope with everyday life. The real trouble begins when he accidentally swallows two incompatible antidepressants and falls into a coma shortly thereafter. While he is unconscious Bernard Schwartz has a stroke. When he wakes up again he is seriously handicapped&mdash;his speech is slurred, his walk is unsteady and his memory is permanently impaired. Similar to a child, he has to learn the meanings of many words. Instead of going to school, Chris teaches his father as best as he can. In spite of his enforced preoccupation with his "sleeping" father, Chris Schwartz notices that his own life goes on without any major change. Still a virgin, he fantasizes about having sex with Lisa Danmeyer, Bernard's neurologist and actually has his first sexual encounter ever at his father's rehab centre with a sexy speech pathologist who performs fellatio on him. At the same time Cathy, his 16 year-old sister, is on the brink of abandoning her Jewish roots and converting to
Zuleika Dobson is a stunningly attractive young woman of the Edwardian era, a true femme fatale, who is a prestidigitator by profession, formerly a governess. Zuleika's current occupation (though, more importantly, perhaps, her enrapturing beauty) has made her something of a small-time celebrity and she manages to gain entrance to the privileged, all-male domain of Oxford University because her grandfather is the Warden of Judas College (based on Merton College, Oxford, Beerbohm's alma mater). There, she falls in love for the first time in her life with the present Duke of Dorset, a snobbish, emotionally detached student who&mdash;frustrated with the lack of control over his feelings when he sees her&mdash;is forced to admit that she too is his first love, impulsively proposing to her. As she feels that she cannot love anyone unless he is impervious to her charms, however, she rejects all her suitors, doing the same with the astonished Duke. The Duke quickly discovers that Noaks, another Oxford student, also claims to have fallen in love her, without ever having even interacted with her. Apparently, men immediately fall in love with her upon seeing her. As the first to have his love reciprocated by her (for however brief a time) the Duke decides that he will commit suicide to symbolise his passion for Zuleika and in hopes that he will raise awareness in her of the terrible power of her bewitching beauty, as she innocently goes on crushing men's affections. Zuleika is able to interrupt the Duke's first
Orleanna Price narrates the introductory chapter in five of the novel's seven sections. The narrative then alternates among the four daughters, with a slight preference for the voice of the most outspoken one, Leah. The four girls increasingly mature, as each adapts differently to African village life, to the misogyny of their father Nathan, and the political turmoil that overtakes The Congo in the 1960s. Since the Congolese villagers are seen through the eyes of the growing daughters, the view changes. At first, they appear as ridiculous savages. But as the girls mature, the villagers become fully fleshed-out human beings, immersed in a complex and sophisticated culture. Nathan's lack of responsiveness to this culture wears out his family's welcome, but he refuses to leave. Only after a series of misfortunes&mdash;culminating in the death of one of the daughters&mdash;do the women leave Nathan Price to his folly. The survivors take different paths into their futures, the novel ending at the time of Mobutu Sese Seko's death in the 1990s. Rachel, the eldest, marries Axelroot at seventeen, and after two more marriages is the owner of a luxury hotel close to what is now Brazzaville. Leah marries Anatole, has a large family of four boys, and remains in the impoverished Congo. Adah returns to the United States with their mother Orleanna, attending college and later, medical school. She undergoes a lengthy experimental treatment that restores full use of her legs and she begins to speak. Orleanna herself returns to spending life on
Part One: Before the Revolution The five characters have gathered at a restaurant and are recounting their lives ten years after their return home from Mozambique in 1970. The Soldier, named Abílio, got a job moving furniture for his uncle Ilídio’s company. Ilídio had remarried to a woman named Dona Isaura who had a stepdaughter named Odete. The Soldier lived with them and was intrigued by Odete. To gain money to take Odete out, the Soldier started accepting money for sex from a 60-year-old man, a painter. The Lieutenant Colonel, named Artur, went to seek his wife at a cancer institute only to discover that she had died just before his return. His memories were haunted by an African man he shot. He joined a military regiment and was promoted to the rank of commander. As members of the military conspired to overthrow the government, the Captain, named Mendes, came to the Lieutenant Colonel to try to convince him to join the uprising, but he does not have his troops participate in the revolt. The Communications Officer, named Celestino, returned to his godmother and a woman named Esmeralda. He joined a Marxist group working to overthrow the government. His contact Olavo got him a job in a ministry so he could infiltrate the government and sway others to his cause. He was put in contact with a young attractive female operative code-named Dália. He was then arrested and brutally tortured by the PIDE. The Second Lieutenant, named Jorge, reunited with
Nat Field is recruited by Arby, whose real name is Richard Babbage and is a producer intent on a reenactment of the Globe Theatre in London reproducing Shakespeare's plays the way they were 400 years ago. The company of boys, said to be the best, are members handpicked by Arby from all over America. Nat acts as an aerial sprite, Puck, from Midsummer Night's Dream. However, he suddenly falls ill and is taken to the hospital with fear of having the bubonic plague. During the night before he goes to hospital, he dreams of being tossed high above the earth and then pulled firmly back. He wakes up in a different room with a boy talking to him in a heavy Elizabethan accent. He has time traveled back 400 years, to the year 1599, when the Globe theater was first built. He meets William Shakespeare, acting with him in the play he had rehearsed for in his own time, and experiences theater as it was originally intended. He becomes a very good friend to William Shakespeare, almost like a son to him. And before he knows it, he is back in the hospital bed awake and not knowing if what has just happened is true or not. Later in the book, Gil Warmun and Rachel Levin, his actors from present time come by and try to find out who he was 400 years ago. Nat undergoes a series of interesting events that open his eyes to the world.
Although this novel is written in the third person, it presents the perspective of a 12-year-old girl, Sade Solaja. Her father, Folarin Solaja, is a journalist, one of the most critical of the corrupt regime. The book opens with her memory of hearing the two shots which ended her mother's life, a memory which recurs throughout the novel in her thoughts and dreams. Her memories of Nigeria are often set in contrast to her experiences of an alien England, while her mother's remembered words of wisdom give her comfort and strength. The concentration on Sade's point of view makes many events seem obscure and confusing, just as she experiences them. After the shooting, Sade's Uncle Tunde urges her father to send her and her 10-year-old brother Femi to safety in England. They are forced to pack and leave suddenly and secretly. They fly to London posing as the children of a stranger, Mrs Bankole, so they can travel on her passport. When their Uncle Dele fails to collect them at the airport, Mrs Bankole abandons them at Victoria Station. Moneyless and friendless, they wander the streets looking for the art college where their uncle works. They find refuge in a video store, but the owner calls the police, believing them to be vandals. Thus they come to the attention of the authorities. Worried to tell the truth in case it endangers their father, Sade takes refuge in silence and later in half-truths. The children are fostered first by Mrs Graham
The novel is written in the third-person with flashbacks to specific events in the life of Simón Bolívar, "the General". It begins on May 8, 1830 in Santa Fe de Bogotá. The General is preparing for his journey towards the port of Cartagena de Indias, intending to leave Colombia for Europe. Following his resignation as President of Gran Colombia, the people of the lands he liberated have now turned against him, scrawling anti-Bolívar graffiti and throwing waste at him. The General is anxious to move on, but has to remind the Vice-President-elect, General Domingo Caycedo, that he has yet to receive a valid passport to leave the country. The General leaves Bogotá with the few officials still faithful to him, including his confidante and aide-de-camp, José Palacios. At the end of the first chapter, the General is referred to by his full title, General Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar y Palacios, for the only time in the novel. On the first night of the voyage, the General stays at Facatativá with his entourage, which consists of José Palacios, five aides-de-camp, his clerks, and his dogs. Here, as throughout the journey that follows, the General's loss of prestige is evident; the downturn in his fortunes surprises even the General himself. His unidentified illness has led to his physical deterioration, which makes him unrecognizable, and his aide-de-camp is constantly mistaken for the Liberator. After many delays, the General and his party arrive in Honda, where the Governor, Posada Gutiérrez,
This book begins with a 17-year old boy named Alex Jackson who enjoys subjects related to military history, and travels to Beijing, China with his journalist father, Ted, to record some Chinese affairs for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and cover the student protests. March 29th - You are introduced to Alex Jackson and his dad, Ted Jackson. They live in Toronto, Canada and before the book takes place, Ted has divorced his wife, Brenda Jackson. In this chapter both of their jobs/hobbies are revealed. Alex loves history, and has recently gotten into Chinese Military history. Ted almost sees his life through the lens of a camera, always lining up for the best shot possible. As mentioned before, Ted works for Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and in this chapter is sent into Beijing, China to replace someone who works for Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, who got sick and didn't want to be treated in the Chinese hospitals. This person came back to Canada. Ted's job is to catch everything that they can of the Russian Premier Mikhail Gorbachev, (Usually referred to as "Gorbachev") who was making an official visit to Beijing, China. Alex and Ted were both ecstatic about this and were rearing to go. March 30th - Alex and his dad leave for Beijing. Alex's dad gets drunk and takes a Gravol, which puts him into a sleepy mode while they are on the airplane. Alex basically has to steer him through the airport(s). They flew from Toronto to Vancouver, then from
After a victorious war against the invading armies of Nemedia and Ophir, King Conan of Aquilonia rescues from the battlefield the dwarf Delvyn, jester to the enemy kings. Delvyn, however, is not the fool he appears, but the secret driving force behind the invasion. The ambitious devotee of an evil demon, he seeks a king powerful enough to spread its worship throughout the world. In the wake of his former patrons' failure to conquer Aquilonia, he believes his new employer both strong enough to unite the Hyborian nations and pliant enough to establish his universal cult. Skillfully insinuating himself into the king's confidence, the scheming jester plays on Conan's concerns over the resurgent strength of the kingdom of Koth under its new ruler, the mysterious, amoral and ruthless Prince Armiro. In a contest for empry, Aquilonia extends its conquests to the east while Koth drives west, crushing the realms between them as they approach their inevitable clash. The king is estranged from former friends and supporters and dependant on his new hanger-on as Delvyn feeds Conan's vainglory. Only the revelation that Armiro is his own son by his former lover, Queen Yasmala of Khoraja, stops Conan at the brink and spurs him to shake the jester's baleful influence.
Doralice, Countess of Köhne-Jasky, has walked out on her much older husband and run off with Hans Grill, a young artist who had been commissioned by the Count to paint his wife's picture. Now, a year later, Hans and Doralice have come to the Baltic coast to spend a solitary summer's holiday in a fisherman's hut. They are said to have got married in London so their relationship is outwardly considered "correct" although their marriage is generally seen as a misalliance, especially by the society Doralice has left behind. While she herself is rather unsure about her future, Hans Grill is an optimistic free spirit, though not quite a libertine, who is full of plans in which Doralice figures prominently. He dreams of setting himself up as a successful painter in Munich &mdash; thus being eventually able to stop living off his wife's money &mdash; and of living with her in a small suburban house. Rather than shunning the unlikely couple, the other tourists at the small fishing village feel morally obliged to associate with them, at least perfunctorily. They are the extended Buttlär family: Baron von Buttlär; his wife Bella; their three children Lolo, Nini, und Wedig; and Baron von Buttlär's mother-in-law, the Generalin von Palikow. They are soon to be joined by Hilmar Baron von dem Hamm, Lolo's dashing fiancé, who is an officer in the German army. Also present is the Geheimrat von Knospelius, a high-ranking civil servant. Burdened with a physical handicap, and never having married,
"The book opens and closes with a picture of little Sal and her mother in the kitchen, the mother is canning blueberries... One sees in this opening picture Sal entertaining herself by placing the canning rings on her wrist and a spoon, a simple childlike act which helps to set the stage for Sal's obvious child actions throughout the books. This is not to be the overly diligent or angelic girl of so many other books, Sal is a real child figure. She gets into mischief and causes her mom no end of trouble.” Little Sal's Mother takes her to Blueberry Hill to pick berries. Sal drops three berries in her bucket, then eats them. This continues as she and her mother concentrate on the berries and gradually get separated on the hill. What they don't realize is that a mother bear and her cub have also come to Blueberry Hill to eat berries for the winter. The book uses a number of visual and verbal techniques to compare and contrast the bear and the human families. Both families pictures are similar in compositions, but they head in opposite directions when they reach the blueberry patch. Little Sal’s Mother tells her that they can’t eat all the berries because they need to save them to can for the winter, but the bear mother tells her child to eat as much as it can to store up fat for winter. The bear's way of preparing for winter is more natural for
The novel tells of John Grady Cole, a sixteen year old cowboy who grew up on his grandfather's ranch in San Angelo, Texas. The story begins in 1949, soon after the death of John Grady's grandfather, when Grady learns that the ranch is to be sold. Faced with the prospect of moving into town, Grady instead chooses to leave, persuading his best friend, Lacey Rawlins, to accompany him. Traveling by horseback, the pair travel Southward into Mexico, where they hope to find work as cowboys. Shortly before they cross the Mexican border, they encounter a young man, who says he is named Jimmy Blevins and seems to be aged about thirteen, but claims to be older. Blevins' origins and the authenticity of his name are never quite clarified. Blevins rides a huge bay horse that is far too fine a specimen to be the property of a runaway boy, but Blevins insists it is his. As they travel south, Blevins' horse and pistol are found and taken by a Mexican after his horse runs off while Blevins had been hiding during a thunderstorm. Blevins persuades John Grady and Rawlins to go to the nearest town to find the horse and pistol. They find the horse, and Blevins takes it back. As the three are riding away from the town, they are pursued, and Blevins separates from Rawlins and John Grady. The pursuers follow Blevins, and Rawlins and Grady escape. Rawlins and John Grady travel farther south. In the fertile oasis
The novel tells the story of two brothers in the early 1960s: the narrator Mitsusaburo (one-eyed, a married English professor in Tokyo) and his younger brother Takashi, who has just returned from the US. Mitsusaburo and his wife, Natsumi, have been through a series of crises. They have left their physically and mentally handicapped baby in an institution, while Mitsusaburo's friend has committed suicide (painting his head crimson, inserting a cucumber in his anus and hanging himself). Natsumi has become an alcoholic. Mitsusaburo leaves his job and they all travel to the brothers' home village, set in a hollow in the forest on Shikoku. The brothers' family had been one of the leading families in the village. Takashi is obsessed with the memory of their great-grandfather's younger brother, who had led a peasant revolt in 1860. Mitsusaburo remembers the affair differently, believing that the leader of the rebellion had betrayed his followers. They similarly disagree over the death of their older brother, S, who had been killed in a raid on the Korean settlement near the village. Takashi revels in his warrior's death, while Mitsusaburo recalls him as volunteering to be killed in retaliation for the death of a Korean in an earlier raid. Their sister, also mentally retarded, had committed suicide while living with Takashi. Takashi has agreed to sell the family's kura-yashiki &mdash; a traditional residence-storehouse &mdash; to 'the Emperor', a Korean originally brought to the village as a slave-worker but who has now gained a position of
The protagonist of the novel is Benedykt Gierosławski, a Polish mathematician and notorious gambler, collaborating with Alfred Tarski on his work on many-valued logics. The Ministry of Winter's officials visit Gierosławski and make him embark on a Transsiberian journey to find his lost father, who is said to be able to communicate with Lute. During his journey Gieroslawski finds out that he is caught in a political intrigue, brought about by rivalry between two palace factions, liedniacy (conservatives and Siberian entrepreneurs backing the idea of "frozen Russia") and ottiepelnicy (mostly revolutionaries aiming for a literal and political "thaw"), supported also by the Tsar. He also meets Nikola Tesla in disguise, who has conceived a technology for manipulating and eventually destroying the Ice and has been hired by the Tsar to relieve Russia from the Winter. During the journey and upon his arrival in Irkutsk Gierosławski discovers that various political forces, including Followers of St. Marcyn, a sect worshiping the Ice led by Rasputin, followers of Nikolai Fyodorovich Fyodorov, who strive for assuring human immortality, and Siberian industrial potentates, are interested in his person and that Józef Piłsudski, in this reality leading a group of Sybiraks and Siberian separatists fighting for Polish independence, may possess knowledge about his father.
The book begins in April 1979 at a small academic conference at the University of Rummidge. It is the first conference that Persse McGarrigle, (a reference to Percival the grail knight), an innocent young Irishman who recently completed his master's thesis on T. S. Eliot, has attended. He teaches at the fictional University College, Limerick, after having been mistakenly interviewed because the administration sent the interview invitation to him instead of someone else with the same last name. Several important characters are introduced: Rummidge professor Philip Swallow, American professor Morris Zapp, retired Cambridge professor Sybil Maiden, and the beautiful Angelica Pabst, with whom McGarrigle falls immediately in love. Much of the rest of the book is his quest to find and win her. Angelica tells Persse that she was adopted by an executive at KLM after she was found, abandoned, in the washroom of an airplane in flight. Persse professes his love for her, but she leaves the conference without telling him where she has gone. Morris Zapp and Philip Swallow, who are seeing each other for the first time in ten years after the events of Changing Places, have a long evening talk. Since the previous novel, Swallow has become a professor and head of the English Department. Zapp has discovered deconstructionism and reinvented himself academically. Swallow tells Zapp about an incident a few years before, when after almost dying in a plane crash he spent the night at a British Council official's home and slept with the official's
The play begins with an astonished policeman looking through the window of a house where a group of people are posed in a bizarre, surreal tableau reminiscent of the paintings of René Magritte. Finding this suspicious, he calls in his inspector. Inside the room, a rational explanation for the tableau gradually becomes apparent. Two ballroom dancers, a man and a woman named Reginald and Thelma Harris, are hurriedly getting ready for an event. A lampshade which had used bullets as a counterweight has broken and a woman crawls on the floor to look for them. The mother plays the tuba. The inspector arrives and asks about the family's memories of a man they had seen outside of the Tate Gallery where a René Magritte exhibit is being held. He invents an entirely false story, accusing the family of complicity in a crime known as the Crippled Minstrel Caper. As he continues, the stage picture becomes increasingly ridiculous. For instance, the couple offers the inspector a banana as the male dancer stands on one foot. One scene is even performed in total darkness. By the end of the play, the characters are posed in another Magritte-like tableau.
Baby Wise describes an infant management plan built around feed/play/sleep cycles. The authors term their approach to feeding "parent-directed feeding", or PDF: The book includes instructions for the care of babies from birth through six months. It primarily covers infant sleep and feeding practices, and emphasizes parental control of infant training. The infant is presented not as the defining center of the household but as a "welcome addition", subject to larger household order. The material presented in Baby Wise is not radical or new, it is simply a re-articulation of various practical methods which are reminiscent of parenting styles advocated by other Evangelical child-rearing advisors. Ezzo and Bucknam describe their stance as a middle ground between feeding the baby on demand (when the baby indicates hunger) and feeding based on a strict clock schedule. In contrast to advice given by popular pediatrician William "Dr. Bill" Sears, the Baby Wise authors do not condone co-sleeping; Ezzo wrote, "The most serious sleep problems we've encountered are associated with parents who sleep with their babies." The sleep advice given by Baby Wise is similar to Richard Ferber's advice given in his popular book Solve Your Child's Sleep Problems. The Ferber method of getting a baby to sleep includes putting the baby to bed when awake; the same as Baby Wise. The baby is expected to learn how to fall asleep alone. Both methods warn the parents against using aids such as a pacifier to ease the baby into sleep, and both methods describe
The novel takes place in a fictional location called the Isles of Bresal which are protected by a bank of mist called The Veil. On Bresal there are stables that train dragons. Cara, the protagonist, cleans dragons for the stable Dragonsdale. Many children attend Dragonsdale to learn to train dragons and take them to competitions, but Cara is forbidden to ride any dragon even though her father is the head of Dragonsdale. This is because her mother had died in an accident during a flight with dragons, and her father, Huw, couldn't afford to lose Cara as well. However, Cara is allowed to help clean the dragons, and she has a favorite one called Skydancer. She ends up having to train a young farm boy called Drane to muck out the stables and do all the things she does. But all is not what it seems about him as Cara and Drane slowly become better friends. Now, many children at Dragonsdale are preparing for the dragon riding competitions. Although Cara cannot participate in it, she supports her friends Breena and Wony. Cara is still determined to convince her father to let her ride dragons and one day go to the competitions with Skydancer. Dragonsdale follows Cara as she goes through obstacles, such as an arrogant child called Hortense, who is constantly making Cara mad, and finally achieves her goal when she buys Skydancer, but she loses control and declares he must be destroyed. Cara runs away with Skydancer to the
Paris France is a memoir written in a “stream of consciousness” style. It is interpreted as Gertrude Stein’s personal view of France as a country, and the French people. She observes the French eating, drinking, crossing the street, and carrying out their day in no other way that deviates from their "french-ness". The word "French" quickly becomes a state of being or state of existence. A noun and an adjective. Throughout the novel, the idea of being French in France is communicated to the reader in a raw, confident, matter of fact way. Because of this, some critics believe the novel was not meant to be written as a completely accurate view of the French culture. Stein refers often to fashion, autonomy, logic, tradition and civilization as crucial parts of the French state of being, any straying of which would be straying from being French, regardless of actual nationality. Stein places the state of France within the context of past wars and the possible impending war and the war’s effect on the “Frenchness” of the French, as well as the ideal/real French reaction to war. Stein nonchalantly recalls anecdotes she deems relevant to the topic at hand, each bringing reference to other anecdotal stories having a purpose and place within the progression of the novel. Stein freely follows the tangents of thoughts and life stories (or stories from others’ lives) but always returns to the driving purpose of the novel, identifying the French qualities and paying homage to England and
The novel consists of fifty chapters, with ten each divided into five larger sections, named as follows: 26-year-old Ignatius "Ig" Perrish wakes up one morning after a drunken night (in the woods containing an old foundry, near where his girlfriend's corpse was discovered) to find that he has sprouted bony, sensitive horns from his temples. Ig is the second son of a renowned musician and the younger brother of a rising late-night TV star, Terry Perrish. Within his hometown of Gideon, New Hampshire, Ig had position and security, but the rape and murder of his girlfriend, Merrin Williams, changed all that. Though he was neither charged nor tried (nor had committed the crime), Ig is largely considered guilty in public opinion. As Ig leaves the apartment he shares with his friend with benefits, Glenna Nicholson, he notices that she is strangely honest with him about her desire to binge, her feelings about his unwanted presence, and the fact that she performed oral sex on a mutual high school friend of theirs, Lee Tourneau, the previous night. As Ig goes to a medical clinic to deal with the growth of his horns, he discovers that people have a sudden compulsion to blatantly express their ugliest and most animalistic urges, desires, and opinions to him, and that no one (neither those whom he already knows nor those he meets for the first time) seems surprised to see the horns. Moreover, when he makes skin-to-skin contact with individuals, he immediately learns their identities
The book's eponymous protagonist, Timofey Pavlovich Pnin, is a Russian-born professor living in the United States. Pnin, a refugee in his 50s from both Communist Russia and what he calls the "Hitler war", is an assistant professor of Russian at fictional Waindell College, possibly modeled on Wellesley College or Cornell University, at both of which Nabokov himself taught. At Waindell, Pnin has settled down to an uncertain, untenured, but semi-respectable academic life, full of various tragicomic mishaps, misfortunes, and difficulties adjusting to American life and language. Characters in the book include his departmental supervisor, various professors and university staff, his landlord, his ex-wife, and her son. The book's seemingly unreliable narrator identifies himself as one 'Vladimir Vladimirovich N---' and bears similarities to Nabokov himself, such as his interest in lepidoptery and his landed-gentry Russian émigré past. Pnin is last glimpsed fleeing Waindell College, jobless, for an unknown destination.
The story follows the overlapping lives of three high school seniors, with the chapters alternating between their different points of view. Jason Carrillo, the jock, finds himself questioning his heterosexuality and decides to attend a meeting for gay youth. He does not expect to see his classmates Kyle Meeks and Nelson Glassman at the meeting. Afterwards, Kyle, the mostly-closeted swimmer, decides to help tutor Jason in math. It is revealed that Kyle has had a crush on Jason for the past three years of high school. They bond over their shared feelings towards coming out and their families. Which leads them to become more than friends.' Nelson, the flamboyant class clown, has conflicting feelings towards Kyle and their relationship. He's very close to his mother who claims to have always known about his homosexuality, but rarely sees his father. After getting into an argument with Kyle, he decides to hook up with an online stranger named Brick. He has sex for the first time, and fears he has contracted HIV. He becomes friends with HIV-positive Jeremy, and they begin a relationship.
Shaken by the news that her best friend Penelope has gotten engaged to Avery, who neither she nor Penelope's other friends think is right for her, Bette Robinson suddenly quits her job at UBS, the investment banking firm where she has worked in the five years since she and Penelope graduated from Emory. However, she does little to find a new direction in life until her uncle Will, an aging nationally syndicated entertainment columnist, introduces her to event planner, Kelly. Shortly thereafter, Bette finds herself working for Kelly's firm, Kelly & Co., planning parties, eating and drinking at the city's most fashionable night spots ... and becoming a regular subject of a popular online gossip column, whose anonymous author seems determined to link her romantically to wealthy playboy Phillip Weston. While she does find Phillip somewhat attractive, much like the heroines of the romance novels she secretly indulges in, and the association becomes of great benefit to her in her new job, she is later drawn to Sammy, a bouncer at Bungalow 8 who turns out to be from her hometown of Poughkeepsie and harbors ambitions of being a chef. The two connect on a trip to Istanbul, and Sammy's culinary skills impress Bette's parents, former 1960s radicals, on a Thanksgiving trip back to Poughkeepsie. But he, too, is tied to a wealthy socialite, and dreams of escaping the high life to open a small restaurant. Bette, meanwhile, finds herself growing distant from Penelope and her other friends, and must
From Publishers Weekly: "With a title more appropriate to a paperback romance and an author whose reputation was made in an entirely different genre, this posthumous thriller by one of the stellar lights of the golden age of science fiction seems unlikely to find an audience. Although Bester died in 1987, the book seems, in both style and perspective, to have been written well before that, perhaps not too far beyond its late 1950s setting. Beautiful model Julene Krebs attracts the attentions of both a high-powered advertising executive and a prominent research scientist. The two men become friendly as a result of their mutual interest in the girl, and she in turn becomes involved with each. Meanwhile, Bester offers what is presumably intended as satirical commentary on the advertising industry in general and TV commercials in particular, via a stream of embarrassingly awkward conversations and repartee in a variety of settings. There's a threatening, shadowy figure lurking about, as well as intimations of a dark secret in Julene's past, but these matters are so submerged in the plodding story that they seem unimportant&mdash;at least until a wild, violent night on Fire Island, N.Y. That's followed by a hurricane, a kidnapping and a thoroughly unbelievable bit of melodrama. In the end, after Bester skirts around an appalling view of rape and its victims, love triumphs over all&mdash;sort of."
The story of the novel follows the life and career of Henry Coningsby, the orphan grandson of a wealthy marquess, called Lord Monmouth. Lord Monmouth initially disapproved of Coningsby's parents' marriage, but on their death he relents and sends the boy to be educated at Eton College. At Eton Coningsby meets and befriends Oswald Millbank, the son of a rich cotton manufacturer who is a bitter enemy of Lord Monmouth. The two older men represent old and new wealth in society. As Coningsby grows up he begins to develop his own liberal political views and he falls in love with Oswald's sister Edith. When Lord Monmouth discovers these developments he is furious and secretly disinherits his grandson. On his death, Coningsby is left penniless, and is forced to work for his living. He decides to study law and to become a barrister. This proof of his character impresses Edith's father (who had previously also been hostile) and he consents to their marriage at last. By the end of the novel Coningsby is elected to Parliament for his new father-in-law's constituency and his fortune is restored. The character of Coningsby himself is based on George Smythe. The themes, and some of the characters, reappear in Disraeli's later novels Sybil, and Tancred.
The novel The Snake’s Skin is about entire universe, where the space is complete and united. The scene takes place at the entire planet: the West and the East; Russia, Europe and finally Robakidze’s motherland – Georgia. Here one may also find an imaginary world of American billionaire living in his villa at Mediterranean Sea along with various prominent artists. There is only one tense in the The Snake’s Skin – present, but it includes past and future as well. The main thing is reality, but myths and legends are part of this reality. The way of thinking is not only particularly human, but at the same time metaphysical and idealistic. The personages of the novel do not live in the particular time period, or represent persons with concrete nationality. The author describes generalized citizen of the world that gets transformed into a particular person or in other words, returns to his roots (actual father, motherland), oneself, and the God. This is an adventure of Archibald Mekeshi’s soul taking place throughout the centuries.
The family is allied with an alien, an octopus-like being who can survive in the new atmosphere. Humans must live in shelters with oxygen-generating plants, or use suitable breathing equipment. Some of Earth's original life forms have mutated to survive in the changed atmosphere. Since almost no metals can exist in the corrosive atmosphere, any technology is based on ceramics or glass. Some humans are suspicious of the aliens, and even blame them for the change to the atmosphere, since they seem to be adapted for it. The family have an almost fatal encounter with a group of such people, who are holding another alien hostage. However, the two aliens are able to pool memories biochemically, so that they become the same personality in two bodies. Their combined knowledge and skills help the humans to escape. At the end the aliens reveal that they are basically tourists or scientists, and they travel from one system to another over thousands of years. Atmospheres "mature" when the nitrogen absorbs all the oxygen, the cause being the inevitable evolution of bacteria that use gold to catalyze the reaction. It is hinted, but not stated outright, that human mining of gold triggered this reaction.
The main content of the book describes the disease that would later cause a global catastrophe: H5N1, the bird flu. In parts of southeastern Asia, the bird flu is a deadly epidemic that is feared by many. The bird flu has already spread to parts of Africa and most of Europe, because of today's transportation methods. Pandemia illustrates the possibility that bird flu will possibly mutate and spread to the rest of the world, creating a global pandemic in a matter of weeks. This causes a global state of emergency, and eventually causes the collapse of society and many economies across the world. The book's full plot features a group of teens in Saline, Michigan that must try and escape the city and head to the countryside where they can hopefully stay alive long enough in their uncle's cabin to be rescued. But in doing so, the teens must use whatever weapons they can find to defend themselves against looters, insane killers, and contagious, potentially dangerous infected. In a world gone mad, can the group find the necessities: food, water and shelter to survive?
The Titus Brothers Contractors company have won a government contract in Peru to blast a tunnel through a mountain and connect two isolated railroad lines. The deadline is approaching, and the contractors have hit a literal wall: excessively hard rock which defies conventional blasting techniques. The company is under pressure to finish, or else the contract will default to their rivals, Blakeson & Grinder. Mr. Job Titus has heard of Tom Swift and Tom's giant cannon, which is used in protecting the Panama Canal, and wants to hire Tom to develop a special blasting powder to help them finish the excavation. Mr. Damon, Tom's very good friend, arrives in the middle of this conversation, and is unaware of the situation. By coincidence, Mr. Damon is invested in a business which procures cinchona bark from Peru, but production has all but ceased, prompting Mr. Damon to invite Tom to accompany him to Peru and discover the source of the problem. Tom, Mr. Damon and Mr. Titus (along with Koku, Tom's giant) embark for Peru. On the way, they encounter Professor Swyington Bumper, who is on a lifelong quest to locate the lost city of Pelone. Professor Bumper returns to Peru each season, and has thus far been unsuccessful. When Professor Bumper discovers that Tom is headed to the same general area, Rimac, Professor Bumper decides to join the company.
Marlowe's poem relates the Greek legend of Hero and Leander, youths living in cities on opposite sides of the Hellespont, a narrow body of water in what is now northwestern Turkey. Hero is a priestess or devotee of Venus (goddess of love and beauty) in Sestos, who lives in chastity despite being devoted to the goddess of love. At a festival in honor of her deity, Venus and Adonis, she is seen by Leander, a youth from Abydos on the opposite side of the Hellespont. Leander falls in love with her, and she reciprocates, although cautiously, as she has made a vow of chastity to Venus. Leander convinces her to abandon her fears. Hero lives in a high tower overlooking the water; he asks her to light a lamp in her window, and he promises to swim the Hellespont each night to be with her. She complies. On his first night's swim, Leander is spotted by Neptune (Roman god of the sea), who confuses him with Ganymede and carries him to the bottom of the ocean. Discovering his mistake, the god returns him to shore with a bracelet supposed to keep him safe from drowning. Leander emerges from the Hellespont, finds Hero's tower and knocks on the door, which Hero then opens to find him standing stark naked. She lets him "whisper in her ear, / Flatter, entreat, promise, protest, and swear," and after a series of coy, half-hearted attempts to "defend the fort" she yields to bliss. The poem
Prunelle definitively replaced Fantasio. He begins to swear some "Grdidji" and the famous "Rogntudju". Several running gags feature new Gaston's inventions. Bubulle, Gaston 's fish, appears for the first time. *bomb against termites: bomb to be placed in each cupboard *giant insecticide: very handful spray, but much too powerful *cuckoo clock: cuckoo taking the form of a spaceship *alarm clock: device which explodes when turned on *giant fly: made of papier-mâché, wood and cardboard, the fly is too realistic and frighteing *personal atmosphere: invented perfume for Gaston's personal office which attracts horses *special transformer: transfomer to allow Christmas strings to flash on and off, but too much powerful, so that it has effects on neighbouring houses *experiment to extract energy from mouvements: when one tries to open the doors in the offices, it turns out to be very difficult *a portable version of the Gaffophone, played in the woods for M'oiselle Jeanne, resulting to a catastrophic fall of the leaves from the nearby trees
The novel is set in the modern Parisian quarter of Belleville. It starts with the dramatic death of a policeman, shot by a "grannie" he was trying to help, and witnessed by at least four others who conveniently forget all details of what they see. The inspector Van Thian goes undercover as a Vietnamese old woman to investigate. Three other investigations follow: one into the attempted murder of a young woman, another into the serial killings of small old women in the district, and a third into drug trafficking by old men. Benjamin Malaussènne, professional scapegoat, quickly becomes suspect number one of all four investigations, owing to the numerous children of his prolific mother he lives with, the various old men with obsolete talents that he shelters, and his repeated abortive romantic affairs. Like all novels in the Malaussène saga, the setting is anything but conventional, the streets of Paris brimming with immigrants in open celebration of their diversity, the situations rarely Gallic yet authentically Parisian.
Dragondrums is the coming of age story of Piemur, a small, quick, clever apprentice at Harper Hall. When Piemur's clear treble voice changes at puberty, his place among the Harpers is no longer certain. He is sent to the drum towers to learn drumming, the primary method of long-distance communication on Pern for non-dragonriders, while his voice settles. There he has to deal with the jealousy and bullying of the other drumming apprentices. When Masterharper Robinton secretly asks Piemur to be his apprentice, Piemur begins journeying through Pern, gathering information and running discreet errands for the Masterharper. In his adventures throughout Pern, Piemur has only his knowledge and wits to deal with a cruel Lord Holder and rogue dragonriders. He Impresses one of the coveted fire-lizards&nbsp;– a gold he names Farli&nbsp;– as a companion, discovers his place in the world, and earns journeyman status among the Harpers. The events in Dragondrums take place after Dragonsinger and are contiguous with some events in The White Dragon, which discusses characters and events elsewhere on Pern.
The Brave Bulls is the story of Luis Bello, "The Swordsman of Guerreras", the greatest matador in Mexico, who is at the top of his profession, with everything that comes with it, money, a mistress, family and friends, bravado, the crowds are infatuated with him. But one day fear changes everything, he suddenly feels a fear that previously he had not felt in the invincibility that comes with healthy-macho-youth. His best friend and manager, Raul Fuentes, is killed in a car crash along with Luis's mistress, Linda de Calderon, after Linda and Raul had spent a romantic weekend together. This betrayal shakes Luis's beliefs about what has been real and what is real now. Now Luis must deal with these new found feelings while at the same time facing the most feared bulls in all of Mexico, "the brave bulls". In his first fight after the auto accident he is gored by a bull because of the doubt and guilt that has come into the ring with him. In addition, while under the influence of Tequila, and some pressure from ring promoter Eladio Gomez, he agreed to let his younger brother Pepe fight these top bulls with him. Luis must now examine his life to find out where the courage comes from and if he can get it back.
Hillary Van Wetter has been jailed for the murder of an unscrupulous local sheriff, Thurmond Call. Call had previously stomped Wetter's handcuffed cousin to death. Wetter is now on death row and awaiting execution. In prison Wetter receives correspondence from Charlotte Bless, a woman he has never met but who has fallen in love with him and is determined that he should be released and that they should marry. Bless provokes immense sexual tension in any situation, given her beauty and presence. Bless attempts to prove Wetter's innocence by enlisting the support of two investigative reporters from a Miami newspaper hungry for a salacious story: the ambitious Yardley Acheman and the naive, idealistic Ward James, who hails from the small town where Van Wetter is imprisoned and has mixed feelings about returning home. The evidence against Wetter is inconsistent and the writers are confident that if they can expose Wetter as a victim of redneck justice then their story will be a potential Pulitzer Prize winner. However, tricks of the journalist's trade are played, corners are cut, facts are fudged, small inconsistencies are ignored, and Yardley sleeps with Charlotte. With the newspapermen's support, Wetter is released from prison and the pair win the Pulitzer Prize. It soon becomes apparent that the writers misjudged Wetter. After marrying Charlotte, Wetter murders her. Consumed by guilt, Ward commits suicide.
Twenty-three years old Claud Bannister has just failed his exam to be an accountant and is determined to give up his studies and become a writer. He is introduced to Laura Thornby at a concert. Laura is forty-five, single and a notorious meddler. When she hears about Claud's plans, and learns that he is living with his mother, Laura immediately starts rearranging his life. In no time Claud finds himself installed in a rented loft and making a living by selling antiques from a stall in the market. Laura becomes so interested in Claud's welfare, and her own, that she even ends up in bed with him. When Laura isn't visiting Claud in his loft, and he isn't working in the market, he is busy working on his novel, just as Laura had planned. But even Laura Thornby cannot foresee everything. Her affairs have always been brief and she has always been in total control, but with Claud she begins to lose control. When she sees what Claud has written, she realizes that he has a talent, and that she herself merely is playing second fiddle to his fictional characters.
When the tale begins, a mother duck's eggs hatch. One of the little birds is perceived by the duck’s surroundings as a homely little creature and suffers much verbal and physical abuse from the other birds and animals on the farm. He wanders sadly from the barnyard and lives with wild ducks and geese until hunters slaughter the flocks. He then finds a home with an old woman but her cat and hen tease him mercilessly and again he sets off on his own. He sees a flock of migrating wild swans; he is delighted and excited but he cannot join them for he is too young and cannot fly. Winter arrives. A farmer finds and carries the freezing little bird home, but the foundling is frightened by the farmer’s noisy children and flees the house. He spends a miserable winter alone in the outdoors mostly hiding in a cave on the lake that partly freezes over. When spring arrives a flock of swans descends on the now thawing lake. The ugly duckling, now having fully grown and matured cannot endure a life of solitude and hardship any more and decides to throw himself at the flock of swans deciding that it is better to be killed by such beautiful birds than to live a life of ugliness and misery. He is shocked when the swans welcome and accept him, only to realize by looking at his reflection in the water that he has grown into one of them. The
"The Owl and the Pussycat" features four anthropomorphic animals &ndash; an owl, a cat, a pig, and a turkey &ndash; and tells the story of the love between the title characters who marry in the land "where the Bong-tree grows". The Owl and the Pussycat set out to sea in a pea green boat with honey and "plenty of money" wrapped in a five pound note. The Owl serenades the Pussycat while gazing at the stars and strumming on a small guitar. He describes her as beautiful. The Pussycat responds by describing the Owl as an "elegant fowl" and compliments him on his singing. She urges they marry but they don't have a ring. They sail away for a year and a day to a land where Bong-trees grow and discover a pig with a ring in his nose in a wood. They buy the ring for a shilling and are married the next day by a turkey. They dine on mince and quince using a runcible spoon, then dance hand-in-hand on the sand in the moonlight. Portions of an unfinished sequel, "The Children of the Owl and the Pussycat", were first published posthumously in 1938.
Upon giving birth to a son, John, a tiny doubt in Luz's mind takes root and soon grows into an obsession, and thus begins Luz's quest for her past: was she indeed, as she had always believed, the daughter and grand-daughter of a family loyal to the dictatorship in Argentina, or was she in fact one of the country's missing children, one of the desaparecidos whose whereabouts were in many cases never discovered. Luz (whose name means "light" in Spanish) seeks her true identity with great courage, bringing to light the darkest corners of the society in which she has been raised, and of which, until now, considered herself a participant. Her search will lead to the discovery of a country divided by a brutal, criminal regime, which caused its own citizens to vanish, hiding them and, worst of all, forgetting them. Luz, on her road to the truth, shines a light in the shadows covering the horrors in this poignant novel that recounts beautifully, from an opposing viewpoint, a tale from Argentina's recent past: the story of the grandchildren of the Abuelas de Plaza de Mayo (Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo).
The book is presented in three parts, with a prelude, interludes, and an epilogue. All three larger sections and some of the smaller ones involve a silver statue of a tiassa, and the character of Khaavren, of the House of the Tiassa, but each tells a distinct story. The first section, "Tag", tells the story, in the typical Vlad Taltos as first person narrator style, of certain events early in his career as a high-ranking Jhereg. Vlad is contacted by the Viscount of Adrilhanka, who is a rogue and highwayman, to defeat a scheme by the Empire to track stolen money. The second section, "Whitecrest", is set much later, after Vlad is on the run from the Jhereg, and follows multiple characters, mainly the Countess of Whitecrest (Khaavren's wife and the Viscount's mother) and Cawti, Vlad's ex-wife. An impending Jenoine invasion is detected, but it may be a ruse to draw Vlad out. The third section, "Special Tasks" is the most recent chronologically, and is written in the voice of Paarfi, the fictional author of the Khaavren Romances. It mainly follows Khaavren himself as he investigates an attempt on Vlad's life.
Princess of Gossip tells the story of Avery Johnson, a fourteen year old high school freshman who just moved from Ohio to Southern California. While on MySpace, she is mistaken as a rising pop star's assistant. She scores an invite to a Hollywood Party and snaps a photo of a young starlet and her secret new beau. Finding this information too juicy to keep to herself, she starts a blog, the Princess of Gossip, and posts the story. Overnight, she becomes the newest go-to girl for gossip. Designers are sending her priceless dresses, and she's getting the inside scoop on all things celebrity. When Avery shows up at school in her exclusive fashion swag, even Cecilia, the most popular girl in their class, takes notice. She begins to get jelous. Then celebutante playboy Beckett Howard sees Avery wearing one of his father's designs and asks her out. The Princess of Gossip's true identity is still a secret, but when the paparazzi catch Avery and Beckett on a date, Cecilia gets even more jealous. There's only room for only one it girl at school. Can the Princess of Gossip hold onto her crown?
The Swallows, Amazons and Ds are all on a sailing cruise with Captain Flint in the Outer Hebrides. While the older members of the party clean the boat before returning her to the owner, the younger ones explore inland and a mysterious bird is seen nesting on an island in a loch. The question arises whether it is a Great Northern Diver, which has never been known to nest in the British Isles, or a Black-Throated Diver. Mr Jemmerling the expert they consult turns out to be a deadly enemy of the birds, as he collects birds eggs and stuffed skins of birds. Hence they try to protect the birds while gathering photographic evidence of their nesting. Complicating the matter is a misunderstanding with the local Scottish inhabitants who are mostly Gaelic speaking. As the plot involves more excitement and violence than usual, with the egg-collector attempting to shoot the rare bird of the title, some have classified this book as one of the metafictional stories in the series: a fantasy tale made up by the children themselves. The other two books generally agreed to be metafictional are Peter Duck and Missee Lee.
The story picks up where the protagonist, Cugel the Clever, had been left at the end of The Eyes of the Overworld: sitting disconsolately on a barren beach far to the north of his homeland of Almery. As in The Eyes, Cugel's goal is to return home and avenge himself upon Iucounu, the Laughing Magician, whom Cugel regards as indirectly responsible for his second banishment. Taking a different route this time, Cugel obtains a deadly relic of an Overworld being, Sadlark; takes service as worminger (a crewmember responsible for the maintenance of huge marine worms) aboard a worm-propelled merchant ship, which he steals along with its owner's wife and his three comely daughters. Cugel is outwitted by the owner's wife and forced to abandon ship and females; and has various other adventures and setbacks, until with the aid of some new friends, he encompasses the defeat of Iucounu. Like its predecessor, the structure of the story is picaresque, and Cugel remains as ambiguously appealing a character as before. The book is currently out of print in its original form, but is included (with The Eyes of the Overworld) in the omnibus collection, Tales of the Dying Earth. In the Vance Integral Edition, it is volume 35, retitled by its editor as Cugel: The Skybreak Spatterlight. An earlier sequel, A Quest for Simbilis by author Michael Shea, was published in 1974.
Canyons is a book about two boys. One boy is named Coyote Runs (age 14) and the other boy is Brennan Cole (age 15). The story starts with Brennan making a short narrative about his life and switches back and forth from Brennan and Coyote Runs. Later in the story, the switching ends when Coyote Runs gets shot in the head during his first raid that would, if successful, will make him a man among his Apache tribe. However, he is shot by American soldiers and dies instantly. Nearly two hundred years later, Brennan finds his skull with a bullet hole in its forehead, and becomes obsessive of it. From that point on in the novel, a mystical link connects Brennan's mind with Coyote Runs' spirit. After talking to his old biology teacher, he runs sixty miles in a day and a night to retrieve the skull to the top of a canyon - a place Coyote Runs calls his “medicine place." After a grueling run and chased by so-called rescuers, he gets Coyote Runs' skull back to his medicine place ending the bond and the novel.
Shortly after the end of World War II, British Colonel Michael 'Hooky' Nicobar is assigned to the Displaced Persons Division in the British Zone of Vienna, Austria. Like the author himself, Nicobar has had a limb amputated. Marshall also served in the Displaced Persons Division in Austria. Nicobar's duty is to aid the Soviet authorities to repatriate citizens of the Soviet Union, many of whom prefer not to return to their home country. Billeted in the convent run by Mother Auxilia, Nicobar, and his military aides Major John 'Twingo' McPhimister and Audrey Quail, become involved in the plight of Maria, a young ballerina, who is trying to avoid being returned to Moscow. Nicobar's sense of duty is tested as he sees first hand the plight of the people he is forcing to return to the Soviet Union; his lack of religious faith is also shaken by his contact with the Mother Superior. The novel was the basis of the 1949 film The Red Danube starring Walter Pidgeon, Ethel Barrymore, Peter Lawford, Angela Lansbury and Janet Leigh. George Sidney directed. After the movie was released the novel was re-issued as The Red Danube.
Lina Sendak is one of six school children in the small fishing village of Shora. When she writes an essay for school that asks why there are no storks in their village, the teacher encourages the class to find out for themselves. They discover that the roofs on the village's homes are pitched so steeply that the storks cannot find space to nest on the sharp ridges, and placing a wagon wheel on each roof ridge would give storks a place to nest. The task of finding a wagon wheel in the tiny village proves difficult, and the children meet several interesting personalities during their search. This simple, yet compelling plot teaches that if people think and wonder why, things will begin to happen and dreams will come true. The schoolchildren are: Lina, the only girl in the small school; Jella, the biggest of all the children; Auka, an average boy; Eelka, who is fat and awkward; and Pier and Dirk, the inseparable twins. These six kids are aided by their teacher, Grandmother Sibble III, legless Janus, old Douwa, and the "tin man". Other characters include the fathers of the children, who are all fishermen; Lina's aunt, who lives in Nes; Evert, the man living across from Lina's aunt; Lina and Auka's younger siblings, Linda and Jan; Jana, Janus's wife; and the mothers of the children. The dedication reads: "To my nieces, Shirley and Beverly, and their flying fingers".
Anna is ecstatic when her parents announce to her that they are having a baby. She sees this as her opportunity to show that she is grown-up and can take care of the family. But Ben's birth is overshadowed by the fact that he is born with hydrocephalus. At first, it is very hard for Anna to cope with this new situation, but she really loves Ben and does her very best to take care of him. At school she has problems explaining to people what is wrong with her brother, because she thinks that they will not understand and she doesn't want their sympathy. Soon after Ben 'meets' Anna's school-mate, Miranda, for the first time, the word of him being disabled quickly spreads to the rest of Anna's classmates. Anna gets angry, but then breaks down, and all her friends feel sympathetic toward her. She then says how Ben really is and invites her friends to meet him: it turns out they love him as well. The book focuses mainly on the difficulty faced by Anna and her family in dealing with Ben's disability and later coming to terms with losing him and trying to move on with their lives.
The story focuses on the border disputes between the countries of Inner and Outer Horner, the former of which is "so small that only one Inner Hornerite at a time could fit inside, and the other six Inner Hornerites had to wait their turns to live in their own country while standing very timidly in the surrounding country of outer Horner." Phil, an embittered Outer Hornerite, decides that the puny Inner Hornerites do nothing but stand around very close together solving math proofs all day, and have to stretch one at a time every morning; Seen as an evil threat to the leisure of the five Outer Hornerites, they are understood as abusing the vast good will that they have received courtesy of the Outer Hornerites. As they stand in the short-term residency zone in Outer Horner, they wait their turn to reenter their country. So Phil, gaining the support of the other Outer Hornerites and hiring two giants as his personal policy enforcers, begins to tax the Inner Hornerites for staying in his country. He settles in the end to accept the disassembling of the Inner Hornerites as sufficient payment. The story chronicles Phil's tyrannical rise to power and his attempted Inner Hornerite genocide.
The anonymous caller has an ominous tone and an unnerving message about something “real dead . . . buried in your marsh.” The eco-volunteer on the other end of the phone thinks it’s a prank, but when a young woman’s body turns up in Los Angeles’s Bird Marsh preserve no one’s laughing. And when the bones of more victims surface, homicide detective Milo Sturgis realizes the city’s under siege to an insidious killer. Milo’s first move is calling in psychologist Alex Delaware. The murdered women are prostitutes–except the most recent victim; a brilliant young musician from the East Coast, employed by a wealthy family to tutor a musical prodigy, Selena Bass seems out of place in the marsh’s grim tableau. Conveniently–perhaps ominously–Selena’s blueblood employers are nowhere to be found, and their estate’s jittery caretaker raises hackles. But Milo’s instincts and Alex’s insight are too well-honed to settle for easy answers, even given the dark secrets in this troubled man’s past. Their investigation unearths disturbing layers–about victims, potential victims, and suspects alike–plunging even deeper into the murky marsh’s enigmatic depths. Bizarre details of the crimes suggest a devilish serial killer prowling Los Angeles’s gritty streets. But when a new murder deviates from the pattern, derailing a possible profile, Alex and Milo must look beyond the suspicion of madness and consider an even more sinister mind at work. Answers don’t come easy, but the darkest of drives and desires may fuel the most devious of foes.
This 32-page book begins with a two-page introduction. According to the adventure background provided, the plot involves a fortress that became buried in the earth ages ago, and became known as the Sunless Citadel. In the citadel's core grows the terrible Gulthias Tree, shepherded by the twisted druid, Belak the Outcast. The Tree spawns magical life giving (and life stealing) fruit, as well as evil creatures known as twig blights. The adventure starts with player characters hearing rumors about the citadel while staying in the nearby small town of Oakhurst. The majority of the adventure then focuses on the characters exploring the citadel and encountering the malign creatures that have taken up residence within, such as kobolds and goblins. The characters eventually come upon the Twilight Grove and its blighted foliage, where they find the Gulthias Tree and encounter the druid Belak. He explains that the tree grew from a yet-green wooden stake that had been used to kill a vampire on that very spot, and the tree accepts humanoids bound to its bole as "supplicants", making the victims completely subservient to its will. A three-page appendix at the back of the book features statistics for all of the creatures encountered in the adventure, as well as three new magic items and the twig blights.
The book is divided into 13 chapters spanning over 400 pages, and includes an appendix called "The History-Deniers" in the end material. #Only a Theory? (Nature of scientific theory and fallibility) #Dogs, Cows and Cabbages (Artificial Selection) #The Primrose Path to Macro-Evolution #Silence and Slow Time (Discusses the Age of the Earth and the Geological Time Scale) #Before Our Very Eyes (Examples of Evolution Observed) #Missing link? What do you mean, 'Missing'? (the fossil record) #Missing persons? Missing no longer (Human Evolution) #You did it yourself in nine months (a statement attributed to J. B. S. Haldane; discusses developmental biology) #The ark of the continents (biogeography and plate tectonics) #The tree of cousinship (the tree of life, homology and analogy) #History written all over us (vestigiality and unintelligent design) #Arms races and 'evolutionary theodicy' (coevolution and evolutionary arms races) #There is grandeur in this view of life (based on the final passage of On the Origin of Species)
Kepesh is fascinated by the beautiful young Consuela Castillo, a student in one of his courses. An erotic liaison is formed between the two; Kepesh becomes obsessively enamored of his lover's breasts, a fetish developed in the previous novels. Despite his fevered devotion to Consuela, the sexually promiscuous professor maintains a concurrent affair with a previous lover, now divorced. He is also reluctant to expose himself to the scrutiny or ridicule that might follow from an introduction to Consuela's family. It is implied that he fears such a meeting would expose the implausible age gap in their relationship. Ultimately, Kepesh limits their relationship to the physical instead of embarking upon any deeper arrangement. In the end, Kepesh is destroyed by his indecisiveness, the fear of senescence, his lust and jealousy. Consuela never subsequently finds a lover who can show the same level of devotion to her body as Kepesh had. After some years of estrangement, she asks him to take nude photographs of her because she will be losing one of her breasts to a life-saving mastectomy. Most editions display a cover picture, Le grand nu (1919) by Amedeo Modigliani. In the novel, Consuela sends Kepesh a postcard depicting Le grand nu, and Kepesh surmises that the figure in the painting is her alter ego.
Frostbite takes place in the remote wilderness of Alberta. The setting is similar to the real world, but where werewolves (and possibly other supernatural phenomena) are rare but known phenomena. The novel opens with Cheyenne "Chey" Clarke parachuting into the wilds of Alberta, provisioned with extensive hiking supplies, most of which are immediately lost. Chey is soon attacked by a werewolf (it is indicated to the reader that the creature is obviously not a normal wolf), but survives with only a scratch, which is enough to curse her with lycanthropy. In wandering the wilderness, she meets the enigmatic Dzo, who introduces her to Monty Powell, a werewolf (presumably the one who attacked Chey). After their meeting, it is revealed that Chey has secretly come looking for the werewolf, and is working with outside parties who want him removed. After a failed attempt to kill Powell, Chey is left in the care of her backers, and used as bait to lure Powell while her own future at their hands remains questionable.
The contents of the book have a legendary character, which scholars have not been able to tie to proven historical events, and it has all the appearances of a romance. According to the book, after Ptolemy's defeat of Antiochus III in 217 BC at the battle of Raphia, he visited Jerusalem and the Second Temple. However, he was miraculously prevented from entering the building. This led him to hate the Jews and upon his return to Alexandria, he rounded up the Jewish community there to put them to death in his hippodrome. However, Egyptian law required that the names of all those put to death be written down, and all the paper in Egypt was exhausted in attempting to do this, so that the Jews were able to escape. Ptolemy then attempted to have the Jews killed by crushing by elephant; however, due to various interventions by God, the Jews escaped this fate, despite the fact that the 500 elephants had been specially intoxicated to enrage them. Finally, the king was converted and bestowed favor upon the Jews, with this date being set as a Festival of Deliverance.
Elsewhere tells the story of a fifteen year old girl, Elizabeth 'Liz' Hall, who dies in a bicycle accident and wakes up to find herself traveling on a boat called the SS Nile. There, she meets a girl who had been shot and a famous musician who had died of a drug overdose. After watching her own funeral through Binoculars on the Observation decks, Liz realizes that she is truly dead. Soon afterward, she and the other passengers arrive in what is known as "Elsewhere". She meets her grandmother, Betty, who had died before Liz was born, and Liz begins to live with her. In Elsewhere, Liz learns everyone ages backwards from the day they die until they turn 7 days old, and then they are placed in the river and return to Earth as babies to begin a new life. Liz misses life on Earth, and becomes obsessed with watching her family and friends through binoculars situated on the Observation Decks. She tried to make contact with her family a few times, but gets caught by Owen with whom she falls in love. She is depressed, but in time she makes new friends in Elsewhere who help her come to terms with the fact that she has died. She gets a job working with dogs arriving from earth and realizes she can speak canine. Gradually, she learns that a life lived backwards is not much different to a life lived forwards.
When Beale and Ida Farange are divorced, the court decrees that their only child, the very young Maisie, will shuttle back and forth between them, spending six months of the year with each. The parents are immoral and frivolous, and they use Maisie to intensify their hatred of each other. Beale Farange marries Miss Overmore, Maisie's pretty governess, while Ida marries the likeable but weak Sir Claude. Maisie gets a new governess, the frumpy, more than a little ridiculous, but devoted Mrs. Wix. Both Ida and Beale soon busy themselves with other lovers besides their spouses. In return those spouses &mdash; Sir Claude and the new Mrs. Beale &mdash; begin an affair with each other. Maisie's parents essentially abandon her, and she becomes largely the responsibility of Sir Claude. Eventually, Maisie must decide if she wants to remain with Sir Claude and Mrs. Beale. In the book's long final section set in France, the older (probably teenaged) Maisie struggles to choose between them and Mrs Wix, and concludes that her new parents' relationship will likely end as her biological parents' did. She leaves them and goes to stay with Mrs. Wix, her most reliable adult guardian.
The narrator and central character is playwright Duncan Patullo. In The Gaudy he returns to his old college, after a long absence, and encounters a number of old friends, including Albert Talbert, his former tutor, Lord Marchpayne, a once-close friend with whom he has lost touch, and fellow Scot Ranald McKechnie, now a lecturer at the college. McKechnie's wife, Janet, is Duncan's first love. The second novel, Young Patullo, tells the story of their former relationships and Patullo's undergraduate career. Fantasy writer and Oxford don J. R. R. Tolkien appears as the elderly "Professor Timberlake" in this novel. In The Madonna of the Astrolabe Patullo copes with his ex-wife, the undergraduates' production of Tamburlaine, and the problems of raising enough money for the urgently-needed restoration of the crumbling Great Tower. The discovery of a lost masterpiece by Piero della Francesca proves crucial to the college's future fortunes, and Patullo is able to help when it is stolen. The character of the provost of the college is said to have been based on that of Henry Chadwick, Dean of Christ Church, Oxford during Stewart's own time there.
Remy is an eighteen year old girl who is about to leave for college. Her father, a musician, had died before she was born. Before he died, he left a short song called "This Lullaby," which is now extremely popular. Remy's mother is getting married for the fifth time, with a car salesman. Consequently, love is something that Remy doesn't believe exists. In the past, she's been in many relationships with people she doesn't really care about, and they never last long. One day, she randomly meets Dexter. He claims to feel a connection with her the second he saw her. He is messy and a musician, two of her least favorite traits. But he is persistent. She slowly finds herself falling for him. She doesn't want to care about him, but somehow she just can't bring herself to get rid of him. Eventually they start dating and she is surprised by how open and honest and caring he is. When Dexter overhears Remy saying that she only wants him to be a summer fling, they break up. Remy begins to date another guy, but she finds herself always thinking about Dexter. Meanwhile, her brother is getting engaged, her mother's new husband is cheating, and her friends are all having problems of their own. But in the end, Remy realizes that she truly does love Dexter, and they get back together.
Martin Springfield and Rachel Mansour return to Earth to recuperate following the events of Singularity Sky, however Rachel is quickly called upon to explain the administrative expenses she incurred during her previous assignment. Shortly thereafter she finds herself negotiating with a lunatic believing himself to be a reincarnation of Idi Amin and in possession of an armed nuclear device which, in the black humor typical of the series, he has threatened to detonate after receiving an eviction notice from his apartment. Meanwhile, a young and hopeful planetary civilization is murdered by the apparent use of a causality violation device which causes their sun to explode without warning (the "iron sunrise" of the title), and their defense systems to deploy automatically against the homeworld of the suspected perpetrators of the atrocity. Rachel and Martin set off to investigate these events and prevent the assassination of the remaining members of the murdered civilization's leaders, who can abort the retaliation strike. In the background the Eschaton continues to play its own game.
The novel takes place in New York City, where a chemical truck gets into an accident and spills its contents on the street. Curiously, the trucker has fake identification, and no one seems to have heard of the company name on the truck: "Ladies, INC." Later that evening, Tom Braun and his family go to a party. Tom gets into a shouting match with his wife, Susan, which their son, Andy, overhears. Andy retreats to his room to pack for a scout camping trip. After Tom leaves the apartment for the night, the women of New York who inhaled the spilled chemicals (including Susan) begin to have severe headaches. Within a short time, the women are overcome by a desire to have sex with any man they can find. Finally, the women begin attacking those who have not been similarly affected by the spilled chemicals. In increasingly gruesome scenes, women kill their children, husbands, brothers, etc., and the seemingly few unaffected women of the city. As Tom works with a small band of men to make it home to Andy, Susan first tries to mate with her son, then tries to kill him. Andy hides in a bathroom until an unaffected woman unknowingly saves his life by knocking on the door. The woman is subsequently attacked by Susan and other crazed women. Tom is wounded on his journey home, but manages to severely injure his wife before she can kill their son. Susan then kills Tom, whereupon Andy shoots his
The novel's main character, David Selig, is an undistinguished man living in New York City. David was born with a telepathic gift allowing him to read minds. Rather than use his ability for any greater good, however, Selig squanders his power, using it only for his own convenience. At the beginning of the novel, David earns a living by reading the minds of college students so that he can better plagiarize reports and essays on their behalf. As the novel progresses, Selig's power becomes continually weaker, working sporadically and sometimes not at all, and Selig struggles to maintain his grip on reality as he begins to lose an ability on which he has long since grown dependent. The book contains a number of memorable elements, such as David's relationship with a fellow telepath he meets as a young adult, or his strained interaction with his estranged younger sister (who has long distrusted him because of his ability), or his obsession, during one section of the novel, with proving that his girlfriend, a woman named Kitty, is also telepathic after he discovers that he can't read her mind. There's also an interesting moment where David's power causes him to vicariously experience his girlfriend's acid trip, and a bravura sequence in which the adolescent Selig, during a visit to a farm, enters the minds of, variously, a fish swimming in a stream, a hen laying an egg, and a young couple in the midst of passionate sex.
The narrative takes place in Tel-Aviv, at the dawn of the war in Lebanon. Mickey, an ex Special Forces officer, and ex "Shabak" agent (Israeli Security Services), has spent the night in a casino, losing a fortune. Now, at 4 AM, Mickey is lying in a rainy, darken alley, having a severe heart attack. While Mickey recovers, we find out that he is married to Laura, presently an alcoholic, and formerly—like most characters entangled in this story—a vivacious, beautiful and promising young individual. We also find out that Absalom, his son, both condemns and loves him, and that he is involved with Olga, a Russian immigrant and former prostitute. We find out that Mickey was shamefully released from his elite unit, for inappropriate compassion - sparing a young Arab terrorist, and later from the “Shabak”, for unjustified cruelty - killing an innocent Arab, father of six. We follow Mickey as he discovers that his family, mistress, and brothers in arms cannot prevent him from sinking into the pit he dug for himself. We watch as Mickey struggles to compensate for his transgressions, while eluding the mafia goons that are after him for his gambling debts.
Julie Krone is the world's greatest ever female horse racing jockey. By age 25, Julie was the first woman ever to win a riding title at a major track, the first woman ever to win five races in one day at a New York track, and one of three jockeys ever to win six races on one card.http://profile.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=user.viewprofile&friendID=415718571 In 1993, she became the first female winner of a Triple Crown race, riding 14-to-1 long-shot Colonial Affair to victory in the Belmont Stakes—"showing the patience, intelligence and tactical savvy that have made her one of the nation's leading performers," wrote William Nack of Sports Illustrated.http://vault.sportsillustrated.cnn.com/vault/article/magazine/MAG1138678/index.htmhttp://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9F0CEEDB113DF935A35755C0A965958260 The Boys Club follows Julie's struggles in her tomboy childhood in rural Michigan and her early-career drug use, her battles with fellow jockeys and the media and her climb up the jockey success ladder, the horrific 1993 racetrack accident that crushed her leg and chest, and her painful determination to make a comeback - all part of her hard-hitting fight to become a female jockey in the male-dominated world of horse racing.http://www.amazon.com/Riding-My-Life-Julie-Krone/dp/0316504777 Despite a series of debilitating falls and challenges, by the time Julie retired in 1999, she had won 3,545 races and more than $81 million in purse earnings.http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2000/08/07/sports/main222526.shtml
Tomb of Horrors is set in the World of Greyhawk, a D&D campaign setting. In Tomb of Horrors, the adventurers encounter a number of tricks and traps while attempting to penetrate the tomb of a dead wizard. As the scenario begins, the players are told that the evil wizard Acererak is said to linger in his ancient tomb in undead form. Originally a powerful lich, he has (unbeknownst to the players) become a demi-lich, a more powerful form of undead that has transcended the need for any physical body apart from its skull. Player characters must survive the deadly traps in the tomb and fight their way into the demi-lich's elaborately concealed inner sanctum to destroy him once and for all. The module is divided into thirty-three encounters, beginning with two false entrances to the tomb, and ending with "The Crypt of Acererak the Demi-Lich". Example encounters are the "Huge Pit Filled with 200 Spikes" (section 20), or encounter 22, "The Cavern of Gold and Silver Mists": "The mists are silvery and shot through with delicate streamers of golden color. Vision extends only 6'. There is a dim aura of good if detected for. Those who step into the mist must save versus poison or become idiots until they can breathe the clean air above ground under the warm sun." The module ends with the destruction of Acererak, without any postscript.
* Road of Skulls * A Gift from the Culture * Odd Attachment * Descendant * Cleaning Up * Piece * The State of the Art At 100 pages long, the title novella makes up the bulk of the book. The novella chronicles a Culture mission to Earth in the late Seventies, and also serves as a prequel of sorts to Use of Weapons by featuring one of that novel's characters, Diziet Sma. Here, Sma argues for contact with Earth, to try to fix the mess the human species has made of it; another Culture citizen, Linter, goes native, choosing to renounce his Culture body enhancements so as to be more like the locals; and Li, who is a Star Trek fan, argues that the whole "incontestably neurotic and clinically insane species" should be eradicated with a micro black hole. The ship Arbitrary has ideas, and a sense of humour, of its own. 'Also while I'd been away, the ship had sent a request on a postcard to the BBC's World Service, asking for 'Mr David Bowie's "Space Oddity" for the good ship Arbitrary and all who sail in her.' (This from a machine that could have swamped Earth's entire electro-magnetic spectrum with whatever the hell it wanted from somewhere beyond Betelgeuse.) It didn't get the request played. The ship thought this was hilarious.' *Scratch (or: The Present and Future of Species HS (sic) Considered as The Contents of a Contemporary Popular Record (qv))
The novel tells the story of Kemal, a convalescing Turkish fighter pilot, who, after his friend mysteriously disappears, is left with a generous allowance and the use of his large house in Istanbul’s Taksim district. Kemal subsequently embarks on a mysterious mission following in the fictitious footsteps of American writer Edgar Allan Poe from Istanbul to Buenos Aires, and eventually to the Edgar Allan Poe museum in Boston where he decides to enter a writing competition with a novel called Many and Many a Year Ago. This novel is, according to the author, “a literary thriller like my other novels,” but, “can also be regarded an ‘experimental mystery’ book,” as it, “also includes eight short stories that overlap with the novel's plot,” “told with an outlook similar to that of Scheherazade, the narrator of One Thousand and One Nights.” “It is part literature and part travel book, a little bit of Paul Auster and Bruce Chatwin,” he states, “what I tried to do was imagine what the life of a post-modern, well-off Poe would have been like.” “Now, I can only wonder what Americans, should they get the chance to read it, will think of my Turkish interpretation of this American master.”
Such Is My Beloved takes place in a city experiencing the economic hardships of the Great Depression. The main character is Father Stephen Dowling, a young, exuberant priest searching for the meaning of God’s love. Dowling decides to try to help two young prostitutes, Ronnie and Midge, turn their lives around. The priest goes to great lengths to try to help them, such as giving them money and clothes, while trying to find them jobs. As the story progresses, Dowling becomes increasingly involved in the girls’ lives. He exhibits agape for the prostitutes and does everything he can to help them redeem their lives. His relationship with the prostitutes is condemned by his rich, self-righteous parishioners and his bishop. In the end, the girls are arrested for prostitution and sent away. Dowling feels that he has failed the girls and becomes grief-stricken. His anguish over the girls’ fate causes him to lose his sanity and subsequently he is removed from the church and sent away to an insane asylum. In the end, Dowling has a beautiful moment of clarity in which he sacrifices his own sanity to God to spare the girls’ souls. The novel closes on his realization of the purely Christian love he bears for Ronnie, Midge and for all of humanity.
Moominpappa has written his autobiography of his amazing life, and he tells it to his son Moomintroll, and to Moomintroll's friends, Sniff and Snufkin. In his tale, he at first was left at an orphanage, but after finding it boring and disliking the strict headmistress Hemulen, he leaves and meets a new friend, Hodgkin. Hodgkin and Moominpappa meet the Joxter (Snufkin's father) and the Muddler (Sniff's father). Together they build a boat, in which to live. They fool the enormous Edward the Booble into helping to set the ship off. After realising their trickery he becomes very angry, but they sail away. They rescue a Hemulen from being eaten by a Groke, however the Hemulen is very bossy, and soon they abandon her with the Niblings. One young Nibling stows aboard their ship, and travels with them. They eventually reach a far away land, where they meet the Mymble family. The Mymble's daughter befriends them and together they go to Daddy Jones (the King's) 100th birthday party where they all win prizes. They then set up new homes on an island, however are spooked by the island ghost. They manage to make a deal with the ghost, and they befriend him. Meanwhile, Hodgkins has designed the Amphibian - a sort of land/sea ship for Daddy Jones. On its maiden voyage, it is attacked by a giant fish, but they are saved when Edward the Booble steps on the fish. The Muddler then marries the Fuzzy, and Moominpappa rescues another Moomin
A Crown of Swords has three primary plotlines: * Rand al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn, prepares to attack the Forsaken Sammael in Illian while enjoying life with his friend, Min Farshaw, and attempting to quell the rebellion by nobles in Cairhien, during which Padan Fain severely injures him with the Shadar Logoth dagger. After recovering, Rand, accompanied by Asha'man, attacks Illian and defeats Sammael in a duel of the One Power in Shadar Logoth, where Sammael is destroyed by Mashadar. Rand then takes the crown of Illian, formerly the Laurel Crown, but now called the Crown of Swords. * Egwene al'Vere and Siuan Sanche attempt to manipulate the Aes Sedai rebels in Salidar to move against Elaida's Aes Sedai in the White Tower in Tar Valon. After Egwene and Siuan investigate Siuan's suspicions about Myrelle, Egwene exploits the transfer of Lan's Warder bond from Moiraine to Myrelle in order to force Myrelle and Nisao to swear fealty to her. * In the city of Ebou Dar in Altara, Elayne Trakand, Nynaeve al'Meara, Aviendha, and Mat Cauthon search for a ter'angreal, the Bowl of the Winds, to break the unnatural heat brought on by the Dark One's manipulation of climate. They find it and enlist the help of the Kin and the Atha'an Miere, or Sea Folk. They also confront a Gholam. Mat is left behind after searching for Olver, and is caught in the fighting as the Seanchan invade Ebou Dar.
In 1998, Travis Boyette abducted and raped Nicole "Nikki" Yarber, a teenage girl and high school student in Slone, Texas and buried her body in Joplin, Missouri some 6 hours from Slone. He watches unfazed as the police arrest and convict Donté Drumm, a black high school football player with no connection with the crime. Despite his innocence, Drumm is convicted and sentenced to death. He has been on death row for nine years when the story takes place. While Drumm serves his prison sentence, lawyer Robbert "Robbie" Flak fights his case while Black Americans protest his false conviction, creating a law and order situation. Meanwhile, Boyette had fled to Kansas and had lived there ever since. He had been suffering with brain tumor for the past nine years and his health had deteriorated. In 2007, with Drumm's execution only a week away, reflecting on his miserable life, he decides to do what is right; confess. He meets a priest Reverend Keith Schroeder who takes him to Slone. Despite his confession to the public, the execution proceeds on and Drumm is executed by lethal injection. Boyette then reveals the resting place of Nikki and DNA samples show signs of rape and assault on her body.
Paul Rayment, a man of late middle-age, loses part of a leg after his bicycle is hit by a car driven by a reckless young man. He becomes reclusive and retreats to his flat where he is cared for by a succession of nurses. None suit him until Marijana, with whom he shares a European childhood (hers in Croatia, his in France), comes along. Paul's feelings for Marijana, and for her teenage son Drago, become more complex. When Paul offers to finance Drago's education, Marijana's husband becomes suspicious of Paul's relationship with Marijana, which causes trouble in their family and culminates in Drago fighting with his father and moving in with Paul. It is not until the famed author Elizabeth Costello shows up unexpectedly and uninvited at Paul's doorstep that he confronts his feelings for Marijana and his resentment at the state of his life following his bicycle accident. Costello's sudden presence in his life confounds Paul, who believes she is merely using him as a character in her next novel. The book can be read as a metafictional discourse on the inter-relationship between the literary author and the characters, and with reality.
Curtain Up recounts the story of three siblings: Sorrel, Mark, and Holly Forbes. After their widowed father is reported missing during the war, and his father (their grandfather) dies, the children go to live in London with their grandmother on their mother's side, a retired actress. She sends them to the Children's Academy for Dancing and Stage Training, much against their will. However, it is clear that the stage is in their blood, as they discover talents they never knew they had: Sorrel shines at acting, Mark at singing, and Holly at dancing and impressions. The book also involves the Fossil sisters from Streatfeild's Ballet Shoes, as each Fossil girl provides each of the Forbes children with a scholarship to cover school expenses. Pauline sponsors Sorrel, Petrova, Mark, and Posy, Holly. The Fossil girls also exchange letters with the Forbes children, although when Miriam, the Forbes' cousin and another student at the school, shows herself to be an exceptionally talented dancer, Posy decides to sponsor her, as well, and to communicate with Miriam instead of with Holly. From these letters we learn that Pauline and Posy have made careers for themselves in Hollywood, after Posy and her teacher had to leave Czechoslovakia due to the war.
Guy Openshaw is 44 years old and on his death bed. Cancer is coming down hard on Guy, and he cannot stand the stream of visitors to his London flat. His wife Gertrude entertains the drop-ins, who were once part of a lively set that came by after work hours for a drink and chat. The visitors all relied on Guy for advice and money, and as he dies the varied people in the novel begin to fray. One of the visitors to the Openshaw flat is the youngish Tim Reede, an artist who cannot sell his work and who is lost without Guy’s support. He has a girlfriend named Daisy who dresses like a punk and talks and drinks like a sailor; they’re a perfect pair of starving misfits. Daisy makes Tim visit Gertrude once Guy has passed and ask her for money, but Gertrude begins questioning Tim about his craft and winds up wanting to support him in other ways, namely giving him run of her home in the French countryside. The Tim-Gertrude affair and subsequent marriage is the heart of the book, and it is a good study of class relations and the younger man-older woman romance. Tim is both a hero and a colossal screw-up, but he is also kind and lets Gertrude’s friends run him down because it doesn’t bother her and he still gets to be with her at the end of the day. Some of Gertrude’s circle are genuinely concerned, but most are
This novel deals with the attempts of the son of (fictional) Chola king Parthiban, Vikraman, to attain independence from the Pallava ruler, Narasimhavarman. The Cholas remain vassals of the Pallavas. Parthiban conveys his dream of the Chola dynasty regaining its glory - which he believes is lost since they are no longer the independent rulers of their land - to his young son Vikraman. Parthiban refuses to pay the taxes to the Pallavas and this triggers the Pallavas to wage war against the Cholas. In the resulting war Parthiban is killed and in the battlefield an enigmatic monk promises to Parthiban that he will make sure that Vikraman fulfills Parthiban's dream. Vikraman grows up and plans his retaliation against Narasimhavarman. But his uncle, Marappa Bhupathi, betrays him and Vikraman is arrested and banished from India by Narasimhavarman. The narrative moves on to describe how Vikraman comes back longing to meet his mother and the mysterious beauty whom he saw before being deported. To his woe he later discovers that his mother has disappeared and has in fact been kidnapped by the savage Kapalikas - a tribe which believes in human sacrifice. He also comes to know that the beauty he has fallen for, Kundhavi, is none other than the daughter of his sworn enemy, Narasimhavarman. The novel climaxes with the identity of the monk being finally being revealed as pallava king, Narasimhavarman and establishment of the independent Chola kingdom under Vikraman in Uraiyur. Vikraman also marries kundhavi in the final
The series stars Kathleen Mallory, a policewoman who is 5'10", blond, beautiful, and stunningly green-eyed. She also has immense street and computer smarts. Her physical beauty masks a cold, amoral interior, however; O'Connell describes Mallory as a sociopath. New York City police detective Louis Markowitz picks up a 11-year-old homeless street urchin for stealing. Instead of arresting her, he takes Kathleen Mallory home and raises her as his own. Mallory (as she likes to be called) still deals with issues from her traumatic childhood, but she has an undying love (or at least the closest thing she can manage to it) for her adopted parents. She follows Louis to the police academy and ends up in the special crimes unit, specializing in computer research. Louis begins investigating the brutal murders of several older, wealthy women from Grammercy Park. While working alone and hot on the trail of this serial killer, he is murdered alongside another victim. Mallory takes it upon herself to take on this investigation (without police sanction, of course) and tries to piece together all the bits of information Louis had gathered. Louis trained Mallory well, but there is still the possibility that following his trail will cause Mallory to make the same mistakes he did, and lead to her becoming another victim. Along the line, Mallory uncovers a complicated plot that deals with magic, séances, and insider trading.
This story begins as Ender is made the commander of Dragon Army at Battle School, an institution designed to make young children into military commanders to fight in the next interstellar war against an unspecified enemy. Armies are groups of students that fight mock battles in the Battle Room, a null gravity environment, and are subdivided into squads known as "toons". Due to Ender's genius in leadership, Dragon Army goes on to dominate the competition, despite the teachers' attempts to put obstacles in their way. After his nineteenth consecutive victory, Ender is told that his Army is being broken up and his toon leaders promoted to be commanders in their turn, while he is being transferred to Command School for the next stage of his education. Here, a veteran named Mazer Rackham tutors him in the use of a space battle simulator. Eventually, many of his former toon leaders are brought along to serve under him once more. Once they are familiar with the simulator, they begin to fight a series of what Mazer tells them are mock battles against a computer-controlled enemy. Ender's team wins again and again, finally destroying a planet that the enemy fleet seems to be protecting. Once the battle is over, Mazer tells an exhausted Ender that all of the battles were in fact real, the children's commands having been relayed to the actual fleet, and that he just destroyed the enemy's home world and ended the war.
In this volume in the series, horseless carriages arrive in Deep Valley for the first time when Mr. Poppy, the owner of the Opera House, buys an automobile. Betsy's friend Tib is his first passenger &mdash; along with his wife &mdash; due simply to her having the boldness to ask for a ride. Although the girls' classmate Winona Root is initially jealous of Tib over this experience, she soon gets over it and invites Betsy, Tacy, and Tib to their first real theatrical experience, a dramatized version of Uncle Tom's Cabin at the Opera House. Betsy befriends the lonely Mrs. Poppy, who welcomes the chance to share the little girls' affection after having lost her only daughter in the years before moving to town. Through this friendship, the girls not only enjoy parties at the Poppy Hotel, but also participate in a theatrical production of Rip Van Winkle that lets Mrs. Poppy reunite Betsy's mother, Mrs. Ray, with her long-lost brother. Betsy and her friends also discover the temptations of dime novels, prompting Betsy to try her hand at writing her own. Eventually, Betsy shares her secret writings with her mother, who successfully encourages her to write fiction of more elevated character. Betsy's parents decide that in order to foster a love of classic literature and make Betsy a better writer, she will be allowed to go alone to the new Carnegie library every two weeks, with spending money for a special mid-day treat to let her stay all day.
The story is of three sisters, of whom the youngest is chosen by Tsar Saltan (Saltán) to be his wife, while he makes the other two his royal cook and royal weaver. They are jealous, of course, and when the tsar goes off to war, and in his absence the tsaritsa gives birth to a son, Prince Gvidon (Gvidón), they arrange to have her and her child sealed up in a barrel and thrown into the sea. The sea itself takes pity on them, and they are cast up on the shore of a remote island, Buyan. The son, having quickly grown while in the barrel, goes hunting. He ends up saving an enchanted swan from a kite. The swan creates a city for Prince Gvidon to rule, but he is homesick, and the swan turns him into a mosquito. In this guise, he visits Tsar Saltan's court, where he stings his aunt in the eye and escapes. Back in his distant realm, the swan gives Gvidon a magical squirrel. But he continues to pine for home, so the swan transforms him into a fly. In this guise, Prince Gvidon visit's Saltan's court again and he stings his older aunt in the eye. The third time, the Prince is transformed into a bumblebee and stings the nose of his grandmother. In the end, he expresses a desire for a bride instead of his old home, at which point the swan is revealed to be a beautiful princess, whom he marries.
From the official blurb: :Empire State of Mind tells the story behind Jay-Z's rise to the top as told by the people who lived it with him- from classmates at Brooklyn's George Westinghouse High School; to the childhood friend who got him into the drug trade; to the DJ who convinced him to stop dealing and focus on music. This book explains just how Jay-Z propelled himself from the bleak streets of Brooklyn to the heights of the business world. Notable sources include hip-hop luminaries such as DJ Clark Kent, Questlove of The Roots, Damon Dash, Fred "Fab 5 Freddy” Brathwaite, MC Serch; NBA stars Jamal Crawford and Sebastian Telfair; and recording industry executives including Craig Kallman, CEO of Atlantic Records. Greenburg also reveals new information on Jay-Z’s various business dealings, such as: * The feature movie about Jay-Z and his first basketball team that was filmed by Fab 5 Freddy in 2003 but never released. * The Jay-Z branded Jeep that was scrapped just before going into production. * The real story behind his association with Armand de Brignac champagne. * The financial ramifications of his marriage to Beyoncé.
Necromancer Jaime Vegas is hired by a television show, along with other celebrity spiritualists (i.e. frauds) to raise Marilyn Monroe's spirit for a little chat on the anniversary of her death. Filming begins with Jaime and the other celebrity necromancers raising the spirits of other dead celebrities as stock footage for the show. In addition, she's asked Pack Alpha Jeremy Danvers to join her as a guest/escort... and Jaime hopes a little more. During filming, Jaime experiences something that should never happen, a ghost that she can not see but can feel touching her. Frightened that she, like other necromancers before her, is going crazy, she reaches out to other supernaturals on the Interracial Council for help. Going to Portland to visit the head of the Council, Paige Winterbourne, her husband/business partner Lucas Cortez and their teenage ward Savannah Levine, Jamie is nearly killed by a woman whom Savannah believes can help. Rescued by the teenager, Savannah leaves Jamie in the care of Jeremey who accompanies back to LA. Together Jaime and Jeremey along with the Angel Eve (Savannah's mother) and Ghost Kristof (Savannah's father and once head of the Nast Cabal), discover the ghosts are those of children killed by humans trying to learn the art of witchcraft! this requires additional information
Mark Walsh, a young war photographer, returns to New York in 1989 after being injured in Kurdistan whilst on assignment. He had spent a few frightening days in the recovery ward of a dilapidated, overcrowded hospital inside a cave, but can this explain his sleeplessness, distraction, his wounds' inability to heal? Elena, Mark's Spanish girlfriend, grows more and more alarmed by his strange behavior, while she also tries to calm her pregnant friend Diane, whose photographer husband has gone missing in the same war zone. As Mark continues to deteriorate, Elena's grandfather sweeps onto the scene. Joaquin is the last person from whom Elena wants to accept help; once very close to him, she ended all contact after learning of his role in "purifying" conscience-stricken officers after the Spanish Civil War. In treating Mark, Joaquin sees a way back into his granddaughter's life, and, despite Elena's disapproval, the two men begin to forge an extraordinary relationship. Eventually, all three travel to Joaquin's manor home in Granada, Spain so that Mark can find a safe haven in which to heal. It is in this romantic and haunted Spanish valley where both men's secrets surface with life-altering force and where Mark and Elena attempt to know and love each other again, with the discovery of her grandfather's secrets of the incurrables and of Mark's knowing that Colin is dead and that he could not save him.
In response to a radio plea from Abner Perry, a scientist who with his friend David Innes has discovered the interior world of Pellucidar at the Earth's core, Jason Gridley launches an expedition to rescue Innes from the Korsars (corsairs), the scourge of the internal seas. He enlists Tarzan, and a fabulous airship is constructed to penetrate Pellucidar via the natural polar opening connecting the outer and inner worlds. The airship is crewed primarily by Germans, with Tarzan's Waziri warriors under their chief Muviro also along for the expedition. In Pellucidar Tarzan and Gridley are each separated from the main force of the expedition and must struggle for survival against the prehistoric creatures and peoples of the inner world. Gridley wins the love of the native cave-woman Jana, the Red Flower of Zoram. Eventually everyone is reunited, and the party succeeds in rescuing Innes. As Tarzan and the others prepare to return home, Gridley decides to stay to search for Frederich Wilhelm Eric von Mendeldorf und von Horst, one last member of the expedition who remains lost (The missing Von Horst's adventures are told in a sequel, Back to the Stone Age, which does not involve either Gridley or Tarzan).
The locations are, at the beginning of the book, the ship from Marseille to Indochina and a brothel; later it is set in Cambodia, Laos and Siam. The most important characters are young adventuresome Claude Vannec and an old experienced adventurer named Perken, a Dane with German associations. They relate to each other because of their nonconformism, which lets them collaborate to obtain their personal goals: the quest for the reliefs (for which they are motivated both archeologically and financially), as well as the search for a lost adventurer called Grabot. They succeed in stealing the reliefs. But they are abandoned by their guide and in a dangerous jungle. Because they fear the government, they chose a way through the uncontrolled territory of the Moïs. This region is dangerous, too – but on the other hand Grabot is supposed to be there. The adventurers have to defeat hostile vegetation and traps (e.g. swamps, giant insects, fleams). A deal is made with the Stiengs, but disintegrates as the adventurers find Grabot enslaved horribly. Now the adventurers are under siege. Perken, in a moment of lucidity and courage, manages to rescue the beleaguered ones. The price he pays is an injury to his knee, which progresses to ulcerating inflammation of the joint (in a time before the invention of antibiotics, at a place without any opportunity to do a sterile amputation), and he dies slowly in pain.
Colonel ffolkes and his wife Mary have invited a few house guests to spend the Christmas holidays at their remote country seat in Dartmoor. When the guests have already settled in nicely, three latecomers disturb the peace and quiet of the party. Selina ffolkes, the Colonel's 21-year-old daughter, arrives late on Christmas Day with two admirers in tow: Donald Duckworth, a young American art student; and Raymond Gentry, an ill-mannered gossip columnist who, uninvited and slightly drunk, soon gets on everyone's nerves. The whole action of the novel takes place on Boxing Day when, early in the morning, Gentry is found murdered in the attic. Snowed in and unable to call the police, the party decide to ask their neighbour, a retired Chief Inspector with Scotland Yard, for help. The latter agrees but finds a rival sleuth in Evadne Mount, one of the house guests and a celebrated author of whodunits in her own right. When the Chief Inspector starts his preliminary investigation of the crime, it soon turns out that each of the guests has a skeleton in the cupboard.
The story is set in the reign of King Charles II of England and follows the experiences of Quaker leader Rowland Ellis who founded a Welsh colony in Pennsylvania after being forced to leave Wales because of religious persecution. A sequel, Y Rhandir Mwyn (The Gentle Region), continues the story. Rowland Ellis becomes a Quaker as a result of the influence of a neighbour, but his wife does not share his religious beliefs. Following her death, he marries a sympathetic cousin. He is betrayed to the authorities by a servant he has dismissed, who describes a "secret room" he claims to have seen in the house, containing objects of Catholic worship. However, this is not the main reason why the novel is named "The Secret Room", as it also refers to the secret room within one's heart where the inner light is found. Ellis and his fellow Quakers are imprisoned and illegally condemned to death, but are released following the direct intervention of the king. Nevertheless, they decide to leave Wales for a better life in America. cy:Y Stafell Ddirgel
In the future, Earth has been devastated by war and disease and supports only a primitive agrarian society. Most Earthmen live elsewhere, as émigrés on planets that are populated by alien species. The author suggests that the human species is the only one plagued by "original sin", i.e. by an innate tendency to lie, cheat, kill; aliens have come to accept these traits without understanding them. The story takes place among a group of humans in the "Earth Quarter", a ghetto on the planet Palu that is populated by an insect-like alien race called the Niori. The story opens with a visit by a representative of a political group, the "Minority People's League", which endorses the return of humans to their ancestral planet and accommodation with the aliens. The envoy is attacked and murdered by a group of thugs who see all aliens as inferior to humans and who seek retribution for humans' second-class status. Their leader, Rack, commandeers a space ship and convinces a group from the Quarter to follow him as he establishes a new colony on an uninhabited planet. Instead, Rack puts them to work building "total-conversion bombs" and begins a campaign of using the bombs to destroy the suns of alien solar systems (hence the "sun saboteurs" of the title). Eventually Rack is stopped by a fleet of galactic (alien) ships, but he barely escapes and returns to Palu. The humans murder him, but are nevertheless forced by the Niori to leave. At the story's close,
The Sea, the Sea is a tale of the strange obsessions that haunt a self-satisfied playwright and director as he begins to write his memoirs. Played out against a vividly rendered landscape and filled with allusions to myth and magic, Murdoch's novel exposes the jumble of motivations that drive her characters - the human vanity, jealousy, and lack of compassion behind the disguises they present to the world. Charles Arrowby, its central figure, decides to withdraw from the world and dwell in seclusion in a house by the sea. While there, by an extraordinary coincidence he encounters his first love, Mary Hartley Fitch, whom he has not seen since his love affair with her as an adolescent. Although she is almost unrecognisable in old age, and totally outside his theatrical world, he becomes obsessed by her, idealizing his former relationship with her and attempting to persuade her to elope with him. His inability to recognise the egotism and selfishness of his own romantic ideals is at the heart of the novel. After the farcical and abortive kidnapping of Mrs. Fitch by Arrowby, he is left to mull over her rejection in an enjoyably self-obsessional and self-aggrandising manner over the space of several chapters. "How much, I see as I look back, I read into it all, reading my own dream text and not looking at the reality... Yes of course I was in love with my own youth... Who is one's first love?"
The story takes place in New Jersey on April 3 and 4 in 1778. The Revolutionary War has begun, and the American colonists are fighting for their independence from Britain. As he works the fields with his father on a warm April day in 1778, thirteen-year-old Jonathan daydreams of being a soldier in the Revolutionary War. Against his parents' wishes, he rushes to the village when the warning bell tolls, to meet the British forces. Jonathan expects to find excitement and glory on the battlefield. Instead, Jonathan and the other local patriots battle and retreat from a group of Hessians, feared German mercenaries that have been hired by the British. Due to a lack of understanding of the German language, Jonathan, in hiding, believes he has been discovered by the Hessians and rather than wait for death, surrenders himself to them (although, ironically, they would never have noticed him if he hadn't revealed himself). Three Hessians capture Jonathan and hold him hostage in an abandoned house. Jonathan now experiences fear, exhaustion, confusion, and eventually, Stockholm syndrome, forming an unusual and almost warm relationship with his enemies. Hardly more than twenty-four long hours later, however, the house is suddenly raided by some of Jonathan's fellow patriots from the previous day. Abruptly, the Hessians are all three killed, something Jonathan is not sure whether to be thankful or upset about. In the end, Jonathan returns home, his understanding of war and life forever changed.
The book is built upon the theory that the "primary emotional needs" for men and women, respectively are that men need respect and women need love, like they need air to breathe. Dr. Eggerichs uses simple examples to illustrate real life situations in relationships and then often connects those situations to the verse in Ephesians and other passages in the Bible. The book is organized into three main sections. The Crazy Cycle first illustrates that "Without love, she reacts without respect and without respect, he reacts without love". Misunderstandings in communication is expressed using simple metaphors to illustrate that men often use blue sunglasses and women often use pink sunglasses during communication. Practical strategies are then discussed to stop the Crazy Cycle from spinning, including the use of scientific findings by John Gottman. The Energizing Cycle next outlines strategies for improving a relationship by showing that "his love motivates her respect and her respect motivates his love", using two acronyms C-O-U-P-L-E (Closeness, Openness, Understanding, Peacemaking, Loyalty, and Esteem) and C-H-A-I-R-S (Conquest, Hierarchy, Authority, Insight, Relationship, and Sexuality). The Rewarded Cycle lastly is demonstrated by example using Scripture that "His love blesses regardless of her respect and her respect blesses regardless of his love". Connecting obedience to Christ in the correlation to a greater outcome in the relationship is suggested.
A young boy named Mickey sleeps in his bed when he is disturbed by noise on a lower floor. Suddenly, he begins to float, and all of his clothes disappear as he drifts into a surreal world called the "Night Kitchen". He falls into a giant mixing pot that contains the batter for the "morning cake". While Mickey is buried in the mass, three identical bakers (who closely resemble Oliver Hardy) mix the batter and prepare it for baking, unaware (or unconcerned) that there is a little boy inside. Just before the baking pan is placed into the oven, the boy emerges from the pan, protesting that he is not the batter's milk. To make up for the baking ingredient deficiency, Mickey (now covered in batter from the neck down) constructs an airplane out of bread dough so he can fly to the mouth of a gigantic milk bottle. Upon reaching the bottle's opening, he dives in and briefly revels in the liquid. After his covering of batter disintegrates, he pours the needed milk in a cascade down to the bakers who joyfully finish making the morning cake. With dawn breaking, the naked Mickey crows like a rooster and slides down the bottle to magically return to his bed. Everything is back to normal, beyond the happy memory of his experience.
The book covers the period March 5, 1934 (the day after Jake Featherston's inauguration as President of the Confederate States) to June 22, 1941 (the commencement of Operation Blackbeard). The United States is able to end a war with Japan, but is beginning to prepare for a fourth war against its southern neighbor. In the Confederacy, Featherston and his Freedom Party enact sweeping changes to all aspects of life, including purging and expanding the Army, abolishing the Supreme Court, and using camps to kill off Whig and Radical Liberal politicians before using them to eliminate the black population of the Confederate States. As these changes are taking place, representatives of the former Confederate states of Kentucky and west Texas (Houston) begin calling for a return to their rightful nation. Though this is done, Featherston is still not satisfied, and wants more territory that the U.S. had taken in 1917 (Sequoyah, and parts of Sonora, Virginia, and Arkansas). After his offer is refused by U.S. President Al Smith, Featherston issues the order to attack the United States in an effort to regain the Confederacy's lost lands, as part of his ultimate plan to defeat the U.S.
The President of the United States and Hollywood bombshell Babette Van Anka, are carrying on an extramarital affair in the White House. After a night of cheating, the president is confronted by his wife, Beth MacMann. The two get into a fight, during which she throws a historic Paul Revere spittoon at the president. The spittoon strikes the President in the head and it is alleged he later dies from the injuries. The case is instantly declared the "Trial of the Millennium". The first lady decides that to win the case, she must hire the most expensive and unscrupulous attorney in Washington. The attorney who fits the bill, Boyce Baylor, happens to be her former lover from law school. Baylor accepts her case and the trial becomes a media circus, with most of the media instantly concluding the First Lady is guilty. Baylor's courtroom theatrics are planned to impress the court of public opinion as much as the jury. Incessant media coverage of the trial smothers attempts of the new President to accomplish anything serious. Baylor and MacMann rekindle their long-lost love affair, but Baylor's shenanigans soon find him barred from the courtroom. The trial appears lost until Van Anka confesses under oath that she had secretly administered a large dose of Viagra to the president. An autopsy confirmed that the Viagra caused the death. MacMann is declared not guilty. She and Baylor have a baby which, coincidentally, weighs the same amount as the spittoon. The media is quick to
Oakington is one of the lesser-known public schools in England, and Dr Roseveare, its headmaster, has been trying hard for seven years to improve its reputation. When, in the winter term of 1927-1928, one of the pupils is killed in his sleep by an old gas fitting falling down from the ceiling he contacts Colin Revell, an Old Boy, to discreetly investigate the matter. Not entirely convinced that there was no foul play involved but unable to pin down a motive on anyone, Revell leaves again after a few weeks, and most of the evidence is destroyed by the installation of electricity in the whole building. A few months later Revell is shocked to learn that the deceased boy's brother has also died under mysterious circumstances&mdash;he seems to have jumped into the school's indoor swimming pool late at night after the water had been drained&mdash;and travels to Oakington of his own accord. Now it turns out that the closest relative of the two brothers, who have been orphans for years, is actually a teacher at Oakington, and that he stands to inherit a small fortune. At the same time Revell falls in love with that teacher's beautiful young wife.
The city of Clarges in the future is a near-utopia, surrounded by barbarism throughout the rest of the world. Abundant resources and the absence of political conflict lead to a pleasant life that should be stress-free. However, nearly everyone is obsessed with a perpetual scramble for life, as measured by slope. Medical technology has led to a great lengthening of the human lifespan, but, in order to prevent the Malthusian horrors of over-population, it is awarded only to those citizens who have made notable contributions. Five categories have been created for those playing the life-extension game, the first four each offering an additional twenty years of life. The ultimate prize is the top category, called Amaranth, which offers (to the fortunate few) true immortality. The Grayven Warlock was one of those accomplished few, but he has become a fugitive after a feud with another Amaranth resulted in the latter's death. Masquerading as his own "relict" (clone) using the name Gavin Waylock, he lives in obscurity, looking for the accomplishment that will reinstate him among the immortals. However, Waylock's dramatic stratagems result in changes to society far beyond anything he had intended.
The novel's main character, Rudy Waltz, nicknamed Deadeye Dick, commits accidental manslaughter as a child (he kills a pregnant woman who was vacuuming) and lives his whole life feeling guilty and seeking forgiveness for it. He was so traumatized by the events directly after the woman's death that he lives life as an asexual "neuter," neither homosexual nor heterosexual. He tells the story of his life as a middle-aged man expatriate in Haiti, which symbolizes New York City, until the end, when the stream of time of the story catches up with him. At this point, he confronts an event that has been suggested and referred to throughout the novel. The generic Midwestern town of Midland City, Ohio (also the setting of Breakfast of Champions) in which Rudy was raised is virtually destroyed by a neutron bomb. At the ending of the book, it appears that Rudy, while he may not have fully come to terms with his actions, has at least come to live with them. In addition, the ending is where Vonnegut provides his most direct commentary on society, although there are hints here and there throughout the novel. Another key theme throughout the book is the relationship between Waltz and his parents. Vonnegut focuses on connecting the actions and attitudes of parents to the ensuing actions and attitudes of the offspring, in this case, Rudy Waltz. Rudy writes a play, based on events in the life of his father's former best friend. In the latter half of
Sir Austin Feverel's wife deserts him to run away with a poet, leaving her husband to bring up their boy Richard. Believing schools to be corrupt, Sir Austin, a scientific humanist, educates the boy at home with a plan of his own devising known as "the System". This involves strict authoritarian supervision of every aspect of the boy's life, and in particular the prevention of any meeting between Richard and girls of his own age. Richard nevertheless meets and falls in love with Lucy Desborough, the niece of a neighboring farmer. Sir Austin finds out and, disapproving of her humble birth, forbids them to meet again, but they secretly marry. Sir Austin now tries to retrieve the situation by sending Richard to London. Here, however, Sir Austin's friend Lord Mountfalcon successfully sets a courtesan to seduce Richard, hoping that this will leave Lucy open to seduction by himself. Ashamed of his own conduct, Richard flees abroad where he at length hears that Lucy has given birth to a baby and has been reconciled to Sir Austin. He returns to England and, hearing about Lord Mountfalcon's villainy, challenges him to a duel. But this goes badly: Richard is seriously wounded. Lucy is so overcome by this turn of events that she loses her mind and dies.
Emilia Greenleaf is an attorney living in New York city with her husband, Jack Woolf. Emilia is stepmother to Jack's remarkably intelligent four-year-old son, William. William lives primarily with his mother, the medical doctor Carolyn Soule. It is Emilia's job, however, to pick up William from his nursery school every Wednesday afternoon. When she picks him up, Emilia is often subjected to snide glances and whispers from the other mothers because, it transpires, her relationship with her husband began when he was still with his wife. They had an office affair, and eventually the marriage dissolved. The reader also learns early on that Emilia and Jack recently lost their own child together, a girl they named Isabel. They had the baby home for only one day, as she died overnight of SIDS in Emilia's arms after being fed. The bulk of the story deals with the results of Isabel's death, including the strain this puts on Emilia and Jack's marriage, as well as Emilia's feelings towards William. Emilia does not particularly like William (in fact, she describes him as "insufferable" early on in the story), but tries to be a good parent to him. This is hindered by the fact that William serves as his mother's mouthpiece, and sometimes speaks in a very matter-of-fact way about Isabel's death.
The plot centers on Gang, a gang of four boys who play War, led by "the Best Father". All boys envy Andrew for having such a nice dad, while Paul's father is considered "the worst father", a reputation he was never able to shake off, after having told off Andrew's father for neglecting an accident that involved Matthew falling out of a tree. However, their revenge on Paul's father has to make way quickly for a much more serious operation. When Matthew dies of meningitis, and Andrew's father mentions the fact that Matthew's grandparents did not take him to the doctor's in time, the three boys decide to take revenge on them, blaming them for the death of their gang member. Matthew's grandparents, who became substitute parents for him and his sister Miranda, when their parents died in a car crash, are touched by the boys' helpful attitude towards them, and welcome them in their home, not knowing that they're the worst enemy they'll ever know. By then, Andrew, Paul and Peter have started calling them "the Dinosaurs", and their only goal is to "have them extinct by Christmas". A horrific battle ensues, and while Andrew and Paul start fighting for the leadership of Gang, things get out of control.
Five centuries after the conclusion of Earthfall, there is only one original colonist from Harmony: Shedemei, who now wears the Cloak of the Starmaster (a device that links her to the Oversoul). After hundreds of years, the descendants of Nafai and Elemak have built cities and towns - yet never forgetting the enmity between the two brothers. After hundreds of years, the Oversoul still has not achieved its original purpose: to find the Keeper of Earth, the central intelligence that alone can repair the Oversoul's damaged counterpart at Harmony. But now, the Keeper has once again begun to spread its influence. Heeding the dreams below, Shedemei has decided to return to Earth. The last book in the Homecoming saga marks a departure from the style and storyline of the previous four. All of the characters from the previous novels (except Shedemei) are long dead. The central conflict between Nafai and Elemak is represented in their descendants, but takes a back seat in this book. The focus is on the struggles within the descendants of those who followed Nafai. The king of Darakemba (an empire founded by the Nafaris), his children, and his advisers, along with the high priest of Darakemba, his children, and his converts, provide the main actions in the story.
Frustrated former hippie novelist Sandy Blair becomes involved in the investigation of the brutal murder of rock promoter Jamie Lynch: the heart had been torn from Lynch's body. Lynch had managed several bands, including the legendary rock and roll group, the Nazgûl (named for the demonic creatures in Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings). He was found dead on the tenth anniversary of the Nazgûl's break up, his bloody body placed on top of the band's West Mesa concert poster; during that concert at West Mesa, New Mexico, the Nazgûl's lead singer Patrick Henry "Hobbit" Hobbins had been mysteriously murdered. Lynch's high-profile death soon opens the door for a Nazgûl reunion tour, which slowly begins to eerily mirror the events of their original West Mesa tour. Interviewing the surviving members of the band while tracking down his old friends from the 1960s, Blair meditates on the meaning of the flower power generation as he cris-crosses the U. S. He eventually becomes the Nazgûl's press agent and is soon swept up in the frenzy of their successful reunion tour and an oncoming supernatural convergence, whose nature he must uncover in order to solve the murders of Lynch and Hobbins. The novel is notable for the detailed account of the history and repertoire of its imaginary rock band, including concert set lists and album track timings. Each of the novel's chapter headings open with actual famous rock lyrics, whose meanings resonate throughout that chapter.
This novel is a sort of 'inside look" at the workings of a fictional Roman Catholic Bishop's headquarters in the United Kingdom. The central characters are Bishop Bede Jenkins; Father Spyers, a young, recently ordained priest who serves as the Bishop's secretary; Monsignor Basil Powell, the Vicar General, who was once a Major in the Grenadier Guards; and Monsignor Finbar O'Flaherty, the administrator of the pro-Cathedral. The story opens as Father Spyers opens a new encyclical, Humanae Vitae, which prohibits Catholics the use of chemical birth control methods (physical methods had long been banned). The process of implementing perhaps the most controversial papal bull released during the Church's second millennium supplies most of the activities of the story. Marshall introduces us to the discussions and arguments within the Catholic community during this time. The Bishop finds himself embroiled in fights with his superiors over his methods of implementing the decree. Father Spyers spends time in the hospital after being struck down by an angry husband. Subplots include Monsignor Powell's counseling of a nun who wishes to leave the convent, problems that the Bishop's friend, an Anglican Bishop, experiences and the irreligious attitude of modern Englishmen. The novel touches on modern literature, the treatment of animals, modern art, cultural differences and Father Spyers' daydreams of his future papacy (interestingly he chooses Benedict XVI as his title).
The Plains of Passage describes the journey of Ayla and Jondalar west along the Great Mother River (the Danube), from the home of The Mammoth Hunters (roughly modern Ukraine) to Jondalar's homeland (close to Les Eyzies, Dordogne, France). During this journey, Ayla meets the various peoples who live along their line of march. These meetings, the attitudes and beliefs of these groups, and Ayla's response form an essential part of the story. Characters range in description from innocent to bloodthirsty, from serious to comical, from noble to corrupt, from found to lost, and from peaceful to violent. All of these adjectives apply, interestingly, in some way to either Jondalar or Ayla. Ayla (and to some extent Jondalar) is often viewed by her new friends as mystic or supernatural, partially due to her friendships with the world's first known domesticated horses and wolf, but also due to her generous nature and wisdom. As they encounter people Jondalar and his brother met on their journey eastward they have a hard time leaving them, especially after an offer to become joined with a high-ranking Sharamudoi couple. Jondalar declines the offer, giving as excuse his desire to have the lead mystic of his people search for and help his deceased brother cross over to the other side. It concludes with Ayla and Jondalar's successful return to the Zelandoni, and Ayla's unconfirmed pregnancy, and Whinney's definite pregnancy. The Plains of Passage is one of the longer books in the Earth's Children series. It was followed
Dave Hirsh is a cynical Army veteran who winds up in his hometown of Parkman after being put on a bus in Chicago while intoxicated. Ginny Moorehead, a woman of seemingly loose morals and poor education, has taken the same bus. Hirsh had left Parkman 16 years before when his older brother Frank placed him in a charity boarding school, and is still embittered. Frank has since married well, inherited a jewelry business from the father of his wife Agnes, and made their social status his highest priority. Dave's return threatens this, so Frank makes a fruitless stab at arranging respectability, introducing him to his friend Professor French and his daughter Gwen, a schoolteacher. Dave moves in different circles, however. He befriends Bama Dillert, a gambler who has serendipitously settled in Parkman. Two factors seem to offer Dave hope and redemption: he takes a fatherly interest in his niece, Frank's daughter Dawn, and falls in love with Gwen. Despite his somewhat notorious reputation, Dave is basically a good, honest man, well aware of his own shortcomings. His cynicism is often a mask to hide the pain of rejection. Though Ginny is not his social or intellectual match, he eventually sees the basic good in her and responds to her unconditional love. In the end, Ginny, stalked by her former boyfriend (a Chicago hoodlum), proves unequivocally the depth of her love for Dave by taking a fatal bullet for him. In the novel, however, it is Dave who is the innocent
The book tells the story of a young boy named Diamond. He is a very sweet little boy who makes joy everywhere he goes. He fights despair and gloom and brings peace to his family. One night, as he is trying to sleep, Diamond repeatedly plugs up a hole in the loft (also his bedroom) wall to stop the wind from blowing in. However, he soon finds out that this is stopping the North Wind from seeing through her window. Diamond befriends her, and North Wind lets him ride on her back, taking him on several adventures. Though the North Wind does good deeds and helps people, she also does seemingly terrible things. On one of her assignments, she must sink a ship. Yet everything she does that seems bad leads to something good. The North Wind seems to be a representation of Pain and Death working according to God's will for something good. On their adventures, North Wind brings Diamond to the country she lives in, a country without pain and death. Yet, he is brought only to a shadow of the real country at the back of the North Wind. The real country is open for him only after his death. At the end of the book, Diamond dies, finally able to see the country.
One of Harding's Pleasure & Profit Books. A collection of real life outdoor stories based on the experiences of the author, Eldred Nathaniel Woodcock. Writing from memory, Mr. Woodcock tells of incidents that happened during the fifty years (1855–1905) he spent camping, hunting, trapping and fishing in the wilderness of Northern Pennsylvania and several other states. Most of E. N. Woodcock's stories feature an interesting partner (who he sometimes refers to as "Pard"), and other local people who lived in the Potter County, Pennsylvania area. Many of the wild places where he made his camps are now State Parks and Forests. E. N. Woodcock tells his stories in plain language, about deer and bear hunting; trapping bear, wild cat, fox, marten, mink and muskrat; run-ins with porcupines and skunks; mishaps that happened to himself and his partners; and the everyday occurrences of camp life. He gives his opinion of state game laws and bounties, and his views on the need for conservation. The book also includes practical information on building cabins, camp fires and cooking, staying warm, finding bee hives, trap sets, building deadfalls, using baits, skinning, stretching and drying fur, tracking game, and types of guns and ammunition.
Jack Cull (a pun on the word "jackal") finds himself in a bizarre location called "Hell". A huge sphere with a sun in the center, Hell's population consists of deceased humans and demons; the humans have the same mind and body as when they died, there is no disease or famine, and deaths are reversed within hours. Earthquakes are frequent occurrences. Humans have taken control of Hell, and they have replaced the traditional inscription (as imagined by Dante), "Abandon all hope..." (written in Italian) with a new one: "Do not abandon hope" (written in Hebrew). Cull goes to his workplace, and hears that the mysterious "X", an analogue of Jesus Christ, has been killed by an unruly mob. Along with Phyllis and Fyodor, based on Fyodor Dostoevsky, Jack investigates his death. Travelling into a sewer, they find out that "Hell" is in fact a massive spacecraft, controlled by hyper-moral, ultra-powerful alien beings with the means of capturing many if not most of the souls they come upon, incorporating them in immortal bodies (provided they are fed regularly). However, the capturing of souls is an imperfect process, and many souls are lost to the void. Although the bodies are more or less immortal, there comes a time when the aliens destroy them when they feel the souls have progressed to an acceptable level. Even then, not all of the bodies are destroyed, and some continue on with the spaceship as it travels about the galaxy.
In 1993, Harry Bosch and his partner Jerry Edgar caught the Marie Gesto case. Marie was a young equestrian who went missing. Her car and clothing turned up in a garage but her body was never found. Bosch and Edgar had pegged a likely culprit &mdash; the son of a wealthy and powerful industrialist, but the detectives never found enough evidence to charge the suspect and the case went cold. Between then and the start of this novel, Bosch had retired from the LAPD and worked as a private investigator for three years but returned to the force because things didn't work out the way he thought they would in retirement. Now, nearing 60, Bosch is working in the prestigious Open-Unsolved Unit at Parker Center, going over cold cases with his most recent partner, Kizmin "Kiz" Rider. A serendipitous traffic stop in L.A.'s Echo Park neighborhood nabs Reynard Waits, a man with body parts in his van on the floorboard in front of the front seat. Detective Freddy Olivas is working the case and Richard O'Shea is the prosecutor assigned. Soon Waits has confessed to a string of slayings involving prostitutes and runaways, as well as to two earlier murders: one of a pawnshop owner during the 1992 riots, the other of Marie Gesto. When the Gesto case files are reexamined, it seems that Waits had called the police shortly after the murder, pretending to be a tipster, but Bosch and Edgar never followed up on the tip. Without this
The first summer of peace brings Wren on her weekly visit to the young Queen Teressa, where she encounters the derisive, upsetting Hawk Rhiscarlan riding in! Wren races to warn Teressa, to discover he's expected, which causes the girls' first argument. Tyron gives Wren a chance to leave Meldreth by sending her on a new journeymage project--to find Connor, who had wandered off to the Summer Isles. When Wren vanishes, her scry stone abandoned, Teressa veers between regret over the argument, worry about Wren, and the beguilement of attraction as Hawk skillfully upsets her court. Wren has just made friends with some young sailors when they are captured and forced on board a shady smuggler, where Wren learns all about the sea. When pirates attack, Wren does magic, which leads her straight to another confrontation with the villain she hates most, aided by the boy she . . . what do you call these feelings? Once again the four--Wren, Teressa, Connor, and Tyron--find themselves deep in adventure, as they try to navigate the treacherous waters of growing up.
Gabriel Noone is a gay writer whose late-night radio stories have brought him into the homes of millions. Noone has recently separated from Jess, his partner of ten years. Noone's publisher sends him the galleys of a memoir apparently written by a 13-year-old boy, Peter Lomax. The author claims to have been the victim of sexual abuse and infected with AIDS. According to his memoir, his father started beating him at two and raped him at four; his mother videotaped the "sessions". When he was eight years old, his parents started pimping him and selling videotapes. When Pete was age 11, he ran away with the pornographic tapes, and his parents were jailed. A psychologist named Donna Lomax took the boy in and eventually adopted him. Noone contacts the boy and they start exchanging a series of phone calls that develop into a kind of father/son relationship. He begins to suspect that Pete does not exist and that he and his memoir are fabrications by Donna. Even a visit to their home is inconclusive, and the novel ends with Gabriel feeling that the value of the relationship to him is more important than whether or not Pete is real. Subplots in the novel revolve around Gabriel's relationships with his lover and his father. Important themes are the nature of father/son relationships, the power struggle involved in caring for and being cared for by another, the embellishment of truth, and the secrets we keep even in the most intimate relationships.
In Dragons of Ice, after leaving Thorbardin, the player characters head south into the polar regions, journeying along the glaciers in search of Icewall Castle. The characters encounter Ice Folk, ice-skate boats, and the Walrus-Men. Characters begin play at the ancient port city of Tarsis in the world of Krynn. After an attack by the Dragonarmies on Tarsis, the party is driven south to Icewall Castle, which is home to a white dragon and one of the legendary Dragon Orbs. After the Cataclysm, the seas receded from the port city Tarsis, so instead of finding a port the characters have found a land locked city 40 miles inland. The adventure series version of Dragons of Winter Night, book two of the Dragonlance saga, will follow part of the party from the first book, Dragons of Autumn Twilight. Returning playable characters available are Sturm Brightblade, Flint Fireforge and Tasslehoff Burrfoot and Gilthanas. Laurana and Elistan, previously appearing NPC's, are now also playable as characters. Additionally two Knights of Solamnia, Aaron Tallbow and Derek Crownguard, are available for players if required. Aaron will appear as an NPC with the party if he is not used by a player. The other characters from the first book leave from Tarsis in a different direction at the beginning of DL10 Dragons of Dreams. Chapter 1: The Fall of Tarsis Chapter 2: The Ice Reaches Chapter 3: The Ice Folk Chapter 4: Icewall Castle Chapter 5: Icemountain Bay Epilogue
The villain is a middle-class small businessman named John Wright who decides to assassinate the President of the United States. He spends his life savings to carry out the theft of a U.S. Army shipment of the two precursor chemicals that form a deadly nerve gas codenamed VZ when combined. The ingredients for the nerve gas VZ were intended to be detonated in downtown San Diego, corresponding with the arrival of the President to attend a Republican party conference taking place there. This nerve gas had no safe antidote, and it kills in two to three minutes after being inhaled or touched. This nerve gas is contained inside two "Alacran" (a combustible plastic) tanks, and plastic explosives are wrapped around the containers, so that when after the nerve gas is released, the containers explode, rendering the scene of the crime untraceable. This plan is thwarted by John Graves, a State Department agent who has been tailing Wright, who deduced the neferious plan, and the stopped it just two minutes before the timers set to release the nerve gas hit zero.
The book opens with a fictional historical overview/flashback to events of Homer's famous Odyssey, but alters the original plot. In the present day, Dirk Pitt, his son Dirk Pitt, Jr., his daughter Summer Pitt, and friend Al Giordino are involved in the search for the source of a brownish contamination in the ocean's waters, which leads to a diabolical plot that they must unravel and ultimately topple. As this is occurring, discoveries relating to the "true" tale of the Odyssey are made. The villain is the mysterious Specter, a huge man who disguises his identity by wearing sunglasses, a hat, and a scarf over his face. The book also features a significant event between Dirk Pitt and Congresswoman Loren Smith. He and Al retire from their life of daredevilry and settle down. Pitt asks for the hand of Loren who also steps down. Pitt assumes the responsibility of head of NUMA as Admiral Sandecker accepts the Vice Presidency. This marks a change in Dirk Pitt Sr. series, as confirmed by his next novel, which features Dirk Pitt Jr. as the primary protagonist. As with every Dirk Pitt novel, this one features a classic car, in this case a Marmon V-16 Town Car. A custom-built 1952 Meteor DeSoto hot rod modified with a engine is briefly mentioned.
A Small Town in Germany occurs in the late 1960s, in Bonn, the capital of West Germany. From London, Alan Turner, of the British Foreign Office, arrives to investigate the disappearance of Leo Harting, a minor British Embassy officer; moreover, secret files have disappeared with him. The embassy's security chief, Rawley Bradfield, is hostile to Turner's investigation. Despite that, he is dinner party host to Turner and Ludwig Siebkron, head of the German Interior Ministry; the latter is close to industrialist Klaus Karfeld, who is successfully building his new political party. Initially, Turner suspects Leo Harting is a spy, but comes to grasp that Harting was secretly investigating Karfeld's Nazi career — as the war-time administrator of a laboratory that poisoned 31 half-Jews. In fact, Harting is hiding from Siebkron, and might assassinate Karfeld. To Turner's chagrin, Bradfield is unsympathetic to Harting's circumstance and uninterested in protecting him, because he considers him a criminal and a political embarrassment.
In the novel, renegade biotechnologist Vergil Ulam creates simple biological computers based on his own lymphocytes. Faced with orders from his nervous employer to destroy his work, he injects them into his own body, intending to smuggle the 'noocytes' (as he calls them) out of the company and work on them elsewhere. Inside Ulam's body, the noocytes multiply and evolve rapidly, altering their own genetic material and quickly becoming self-aware. The nanoscale civilization they construct soon begins to transform Ulam, then others. The people who are infected start to find that genetic faults such as myopia and high blood pressure are fixed. The bumps along the spine as well as the nipples fade. Finally, white stripes and ridges start growing over their bodies. Ulam reports that the cells seem to sing. Through infection, conversion and assimilation of humans and other organisms the cells eventually aggregate most of the biosphere of North America into a region seven thousand kilometres wide. This civilization, which incorporates both the evolved noocytes and recently-assimilated conventional humans, is eventually forced to abandon the normal plane of existence in favor of one in which thought does not require a physical substrate. The reason for the noocytes' inability to remain in this reality is somewhat related to the strong anthropic principle. The book's structure is titled "inter-phase", "prophase", "metaphase", "anaphase", "telophase" and "interphase." This mirrors the major phases of cell cycle: interphase and mitosis.
_ The book concerns an elephant named Horton, who is convinced by Mayzie (a lazy, irresponsible bird) to sit on her egg while she takes a short "break", which in actuality ends up being Mayzie's permanent relocation to Palm Beach. Naturally, the absurd sight of an elephant sitting atop a tree makes quite a scene &ndash; Horton is exposed to the elements, laughed at by his jungle friends, captured by hunters, forced to endure a terrible sea voyage, and finally placed in a traveling circus. However, despite his hardships and Mayzie's clear intent not to return, Horton refuses to leave the nest through all of these, because he insists on keeping his word ("I meant what I said and I said what I meant, And an elephant's faithful, one hundred per cent!") The traveling circus ends up visiting near Mayzie's new Palm Beach residence; she returns to the circus once the egg is due to hatch, and demands its return without offering any reward for Horton. However, when the egg hatches, the creature that emerges is an "elephant-bird" cross between Horton and Mayzie, and Horton and the baby are returned happily to the jungle, rewarding Horton for his persistence, while Mayzie is punished for her laziness by ending up with nothing.
The autobiography begins at his birth. Albert Barnett Facey was born in Maidstone, Victoria, Australia, in 1894. His father died on the Goldfields of Western Australia in 1896 of typhoid fever and Albert's mother left her children to the care of their grandmother shortly afterwards. In 1899 he moved from Victoria to Western Australia in the care of his grandmother, Mrs. Jane Carr (born 1832 - died 1932), and three of his six older siblings: Roy, Eric and Myra. Most of his childhood was spent in the Wickepin area. He started working on farms at the age of eight and had little education and therefore could not read or write. As a child he taught himself to read and write. By the age of 14 he was an experienced bushman, and at 18 a professional boxer. Badly injured at Gallipoli, he suffered severe problems which later were the cause of his death. In August 1915 during the First World War, in which two of his brothers, Joseph and Roy, were killed. While recuperating he met his future wife Evelyn Mary Gibson and they were married in Bunbury in August 1916. The Faceys lived in East Perth before returning to Wickepin six years later with their children, where they lived until 1934. His wife died in 1976. The couple had seven children - the eldest, Barney, was killed during the Second World War - and twenty-eight grandchildren.
Nana, an attractive young "non-talker" in her mid-twenties&mdash;"tall, thin, pale, blonde, breasty"&mdash;who is working on her M.A. thesis, lives with her "Papa", the "benevolent angel" of the story, in Edgware, a suburb of London. She gets to know Moshe, a young Jewish actor from Finsbury, and they start a relationship. As time goes by, Anjali, a friend of Moshe's, joins them more and more in their sparetime activities until Nana, for whom sex is not necessarily a top priority, suggests a "threesome" because she wants Moshe to be happy. Accordingly, due to Nana's altruism, for some months Nana and Moshe are joined in their lovemaking by Anjali, who is bisexual. The narrator, who defines a threesome as "the socialist utopia of sex", describes not only the sociology, psychology and ethics of their ménage à trois (for example by comparing it to the love triangle depicted in the film Cabaret) but also, in some detail, the technicalities and what he calls "sexual etiquette". However, he also frequently ponders philosophical questions and occasionally redefines old concepts such as that of infidelity ("the selfish desire to be helpful to more than one person"). In the summer Nana goes on holiday with her Papa, leaving behind two thirds of the ménage à trois. In Venice, Italy, Papa complains of a splitting headache, and shortly after their return to England he suffers a stroke&mdash;a good excuse for Nana to break up with both Moshe and Anjali, although her father is saddened by the thought of
The central theme of the book is a fictitious story behind the real life plane crash which killed General Zia, president of Pakistan from 1977 to 1988, about which there are many conspiracy theories. After witnessing a tank parade in Bahawalpur, Zia left the small Punjabi town in the C-130 Hercules aircraft designated 'Pak One'. Shortly after a smooth take-off, the control tower loses contact with the aircraft. Witnesses who saw the plane in the air later claimed it was flying erratically, before nosediving and exploding on impact, killing General Zia and several other senior army generals, in addition to Arnold Raphel, the US Ambassador to Pakistan, and General Herbert M. Wassom, the head of the U.S. Military aid mission to Pakistan. Zia had ruled Pakistan for 11 years prior to his death. The book develops through the eyes of the narrator, Ali Shigri, a Junior Officer in the Pakistani Air Force who seeks revenge for the death of his father, which he is convinced, although apparently a suicide, was orchestrated by General Zia himself.
The year is 1943 and life is good for Jewel Hilburn, her husband, Leston, and their five children. Although there's a war on, the Mississippi economy is booming, providing plenty of business for the hardworking family. And even the news that eldest son James has enlisted is mitigated by the fact that Jewel, now pushing 40, is pregnant with one last child. Her joy is slightly clouded, however, when her childhood friend Cathedral arrives at the door with a troubling prophecy: "I say unto you that the baby you be carrying be yo' hardship, be yo' test in this world. This be my prophesying unto you, Miss Jewel." When the child is finally born, it seems that Cathedral's prediction was empty: the baby appears normal in every way. As the months go by, however, Jewel becomes increasingly afraid that something is wrong with little Brenda Kay—she doesn't cry, she doesn't roll over, she's hardly ever awake. Eventually husband and wife take the baby to the doctor and are informed that she is a "Mongolian Idiot," not expected to live past the age of 2. Jewel angrily rebuffs the doctor's suggestion that they institutionalize Brenda Kay. Instead the Hilburns shoulder the burdens—and discover the unexpected joys—of living with a Down syndrome child.
In a post-Apocalypse America where almost everyone was killed by a plague over 1700 years prior, little is known about the ancient "Roadmaker" civilization that is said to have built the devastated ruins of enormous cities, and the magnificent roads that still cover the landscape. In the valley of the Mississippi River, a number of towns have united again, trade and science have begun anew. When a copy of Mark Twain's novel A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court is discovered in the estate of the sole survivor of an earlier expedition to the north, a young woman named Chaka Milana, whose brother died in the previous expedition almost a decade ago, decides to gather a band of explorers and try to find Haven, a legendary stronghold where the knowledge of mankind is said to have been collected and kept safe for future generations. A long voyage ensues, taking the group, amongst other places, to the ruins of the ancient city of Chicago. After losing several members of their team and travelling by an extraordinary means of transport that still functions after hundreds of years, the team eventually finds Haven and salvages some of the knowledge stored there before the facility is struck by a disaster that they themselves cause.
Except for the epilogue, the book takes place entirely in 1856. Sapphira is an unhappy middle-aged woman, crippled by dropsy, who came to marriage late and married beneath her station. Her husband, Henry, a miller, lives an entirely separate life, residing at his mill and visiting the estate house only for occasional meals. Sapphira is comfortable with slavery; Henry is not. Having overheard a conversation between two of her slaves, Sapphira develops a paranoid fear that Henry is having an affair with an attractive young mulatto girl named Nancy. Sapphira responds by mistreating Nancy. Eventually Sapphira invites a dissolute nephew to the estate, who threatens to rape Nancy on several occasions. With the help of the Colbert's daughter, Rachel Colbert Blake, and two abolitionist neighbors, Nancy is helped to make connections with the Underground Railroad and taken to Canada. The epilogue takes place 25 years later. Nancy, now in her 40s, returns to Virginia to visit her mother, and Mrs. Blake. The narrator (Cather) is revealed to be a child who has heard stories of Nancy's escape all of her life.
The main influence in fourteen-year-old Will Burrows' life is his father, Dr. Burrows, and together they share an interest in archaeology and a fascination for the buried past. When Dr. Burrows begins to notice unusual people where they live in Highfield and then promptly goes missing, Will and his friend, Chester, go in search of him. They discover a blocked passageway behind bookshelves in the cellar of the Burrows home and re-excavate it. The passage leads to a door set into the rock, and beyond the door is an old lift that takes them to a cobblestone street underground. Lit by a row of orb-like lamps, they come across houses that appear to be carved out of the walls themselves. They are soon captured by the police of the underground community known as the Colony. In prison, Will is visited by Mr. Jerome and his son Cal. They reveal Will was actually born in the Colony, and they are his real family. Will is eventually released from the prison and taken to the Jerome home. There Uncle Tam is delighted to see him, and informs Will that his stepfather was recently there, and had willingly traveled down into the Deeps&nbsp;— a place even deeper in the Earth than The Colony. Will learns that the Styx, the religious rulers of the Colony, are either going to enslave Chester or banish him to the Deeps to fend for himself. Will refuses to abandon his friend, and Uncle Tam formulates a plan for
It comes to pass that the stranger reveals himself to be Bevan of Eubaricon, the son of an ancient High King of Isle and Celwony, the goddess of the moon. His appearance offers both hope and threat to Cuin and Ellid, and the mortals they represent. The lands would benefit from a High King who would keep the regional lordlings from warring with each other, but at the same time, Bevan’s presence stirs Pel, an ancient evil who begins preying upon the mortals to raise an army of undead using the Coradel Orre. Ellid falls in love with Bevan and turns away from her engagement to Cuin. Cuin, in turn, finds himself apprenticed to Bevan after Bevan saves him from the Priests of Pel. Bevan decides it is his destiny to return the Coradel Orre to the Gods, so they can refresh their immortality and goes in search of it. On their quest, Cuin discovers he is heir to an ancient kingdom older than Pryce Dacaerin’s holdings. To complete their quest, Cuin must first win a magical sword from those who guard the kingdom, and then Bevan, Cuin, and Dacaerin work together to gather the lords of Isle together to wage war on Pel and his undead army. Bevan and Cuin together win a great victory, but lose the Coradel Orre, marking the end of immortal gods in the world of men. Bevan is crowned High King and marries Ellid. Cuin is absent from the ceremony on a diplomatic journey,
The day Tallis Keeton disappears into Ryhope wood in Lavondyss, her father, James Keeton, disappears into the wood to locate her. While he spends only four days in Ryhope wood, over one year of time passes in the outside world. When he turns up, he is clutching Moondream, one of Tallis’ masks, and is placed in a mental hospital. He is kept close company by Alex Bradley, a young playmate of Tallis’, who alone can calm James. James Keeton has a number of episodes in which he appears to communicate with Tallis through the mask. In a dramatic scene, Richard Bradley sees James Keeton collapse and die. At the same time, his son Alex is physically traumatized by a mythic force. This compromises Alex’s mental faculties and he is confined to the same mental hospital. Alex escapes the mental hospital and his highly decayed remains are subsequently found, so he is presumed dead. After six years Alex’s father, Richard Bradley, receives evidence that Alex may yet be alive in Ryhope wood. Richard joins a scientific expedition to locate his son in the wood, rendered all the more dangerous by the mythagos feeding off Alex’s imagination. During his quest in the wood, Richard Bradley develops a romantic relationship with Helen Silverlock, a Native American. In addition to introducing Native American culture into Ryhope wood, mythagos about Jack (as in Jack and the Beanstalk), the Tower of Babel and Jason and the Argonauts appear, the last two of which involve variations on
It is the girls last summer before college and then they will go to university and college. They all find themselves in different, but challenging situations. They all struggle with their identities, love, and relationships. Following the death of Lena's grandfather, Lena's father convinced his mother, Valia, to move in with his family. Valia is homesick and sad, and, as a result, constantly complains and makes Lena's home life very tense. Lena's one solace is the figure drawing class she is taking at an art school, despite her parents' wishes that she choose a more practical interest. However, when her father comes into the class and sees her drawing a nude model, he really forbids her from taking the class. Lena tries to fund the class herself, but is caught by her father, who then announces that he will not pay for Lena to go to the Rhode Island School of Design. Shocked by her father's decision, Lena goes to the class's instructor, Annik Marchand, who advises Lena to try for a scholarship. Lena makes a portfolio of drawings of her family, as well as Paul Rodman, who comes to stay with Carmen and ends up visiting and posing for Lena. Through her drawings, Lena learns more about her family: her sister Effie's anger that Lena is leaving for college, her mother's struggle between Lena's wishes and her father's, her father's fear of Lena entering a world he is unfamiliar with, and her grandmother's wishes that someone pay attention to
After being unceremoniously fired by California Fidelity Insurance at the end of H is for Homicide, Kinsey has found herself new office space with her attorney, Lonnie Kingman, at the beginning of I is for Innocent. Lonnie has a case he wants Kinsey's help with - 6 years ago, David Barney was acquitted of killing his estranged wife, talented but insecure society house-designer Isabelle Barney, by shooting her dead through the spy hole of her front door. David's desperation to rebuild the marriage after the split netted him an injunction for harassment, so he was the obvious suspect, particularly since he inherited Isabelle's multi-million dollar business, but the prosecution couldn't make it stick. Now Isabelle's previous husband, Kenneth Voigt, is trying again in the civil courts, in an attempt to secure the fortune for his and Isabelle's daughter Shelby, and Lonnie needs some evidence. The previous PI on the case, Morley Shine, has just died of a heart attack, and Lonnie asks Kinsey to step in. Kinsey agrees, and knowing Morley of old, is surprised to find his files in a mess, with crucial witness statements missing. One new witness has come forward: Curtis MacIntyre, a habitual jailbird who shared a cell with Barney for a night and claims that Barney confessed to his guilt just after the acquittal. Kinsey is very doubtful of this story, especially when she finds out Curtis was in custody on another matter on the date in question. In trying to fill in the other
While getting ready to land at Camp Jupiter, Annabeth Chase prepares by making sure the various back-up plans are ready in case something goes wrong. While Leo Valdez was flying the Argo II, Annabeth tried to keep Gleeson Hedge from attacking the first thing he saw by convicing him watch reruns of mixed martial arts championships in his cabin. Jason Grace prepared by putting on a purple toga over his orange Camp Half-Blood t-shirt and Piper McLean practiced her lines for when they landed. As Annabeth watched Jason, she wondered if this could all be a trap as she was still a bit untrusting of Jason as he seemed to be too perfect. She also was reminded of how much she missed Percy Jackson every time she looked at him. Annabeth also mentions feeling a mysterious chill, as if "an evil snowman had crept up behind her and was peering over her neck." Annabeth wished she could pray to her mother, but this would be impossible as Athena had appeared to her about a month ago, an encounter Annabeth described as very horrible. Athena also gave Annabeth the worst present of her life during this meeting. Soon, the horns from Camp Jupiter sounded below as the campers spotted the Argo II. Annabeth Chase is amazed at the size of Camp Jupiter, which is twice the size of Camp Half Blood, and recognizes the landmarks that Jason has told her about. She sees evidence of the Romans' recent battle, including the
Ras Tyger has lived in the jungle for as long as he can remember. Raised by apes, he lives an idyllic existence as the lord of the jungle, gleefully hunting prey and feeding his prodigious sexual appetite with various female denizens of his jungle. Eventually, however, Tyger begins to suspect that all is not as it seems. He sees strange giant birds, black and without movement aside from their spinning wings atop their heads. He sees other apes raising their young and ponders why his childhood was so different. Always receiving more questions than answers, the more Tyger explores his universe, the more it begins to deconstruct before his very eyes. Ultimately, Tyger discovers that his entire life is a fraud, a construct. A crazed millionaire named Boygur has, in an effort to reproduce the Tarzan novels he loved as a child, purchased a young English nobleman (Tyger) and created a complex series of jungle environs for him to live within. He hires two dwarfs to act as his ape parents, and has two huge black helicopters (Tyger's "giant birds") patrol the area to keep outsiders out, and insiders in. Ultimately, neither Tyger nor Boygur get what they desire. Tyger cannot handle the harshness of his newfound reality, and Boygur is shocked and appalled when the jungle superman he's raised is far from innocent. At the end of the book, Boygur sadly notes that "things went their own way."
The novel is set in Indiana. Most of the action takes place either in or around the Limberlost, or in the nearby, fictional town of Onabasha. This Bildungsroman is structured as girl-meets-boy, girl-loses-boy, girl-undertakes-an-adventure-to-win-boy-back. The novel's heroine, Elnora Comstock, is an impoverished young woman who lives with her widowed mother, Katharine Comstock, on the edge of the Limberlost. Elnora faces cold neglect by her mother, a woman who feels ruined by the death of her husband, Robert Comstock, who drowned in quicksand in the swamp. Katharine blames Elnora for his death, because her husband died while she gave birth to their daughter and could not come to his rescue. The Comstocks make money by selling eggs and other farm products, but Mrs. Comstock refuses to cut down a single tree in the forest, or to delve for oil, as the neighbors around them are doing, even though the added income would make their lives easier. Elnora is just beginning high school, where her unfashionable dress adds to her difficulty blending in with the other students. She is determined to earn an education, which her mother derides as useless; Mrs. Comstock wants Elnora to remain at home and work as a drudge on their farm. Lack of money for tuition and books nearly derail her continued enrollment. Her few comforts are the fact that she knows she can excel in school, especially in math and her study of nature; the kindness of her neighbours, Wesley and Margaret Sinton; that Freckles left
The story concerns the attempts of a Greek village community to stage a Passion play. It takes place in a Greek village (Lycovrisi. "Wolf-tap") under the Ottoman Empire. The village holds Passion plays every seven years and the elders of the village decide on choosing among the villagers the characters for the play. Manolios, who is chosen to play the role of Christ, is a humble shepherd boy who was once a novice in a monastery. Yannakkos becomes Apostle Peter. He is a merchant-peddler who travels with his donkey through the villages and sells his items. He is warm-hearted, naive and loves his donkey above all else. Michelis, the son of the wealthy nobleman, old Patriarcheas becomes Apostle John. Kostandis, the owner of the village cafe, is Apostle James. He is good-hearted, willing to share, but confused. Then comes Panayotaros, who is chosen to be Judas. He is a wild, passionate man, waiting for revenge. The widow Katerina is Mary Magdalene. She is the village's prostitute. She is beautiful, but of course an outsider in the village, not caring about anybody’s opinion. But she is the most generous one and in the end gives her life for what she believes in. Then the Elders of Lycovrissi are introduced. There is the Priest Grigoris - a domineering man who bends God’s will to his own. Archon Patriarcheas is the leader of the village. He only lives for his own pleasure. Old Ladas is a miser who is obsessed with his money
Soraya, Kavi and Jiaan have agreed to work together to defeat the Hrum and free Farsala. However, distrust of Kavi is impeding this effort. The three attempt to work together, but it becomes difficult. Luckily, they have finally uncovered the secret of watersteel, with the help of Kavi's ability to "speak" to metal. Only a few months remain in the Hrums self-imposed limit to conquer Farsala. The three youths learn that Garren, the Strategus in charge of the conquest, has more riding on the conquest than just Farsala. His father, a member of the Senate of the Hrum Empire, stated that Garren would conquer Farsala with only ten thousand troops. In addition, his father stated that he will resign from the Senate if this is not accomplished. He did these things in order to secure the assignment of the Farsalan conquest to his son. Garren's father's enemies are eager for this to happen. When Garren requisitions gold to hire Kadeshi aid and circumvent the troop sanction, the Senate sends a delegation to review the conquest. Kavi, Jiaan and Soraya decide to capture the gold before it reaches the Kadeshi, as a Kadeshi warlord has informed Jiaan that if he chooses to pay, the warlord will order the troops he sent Garren to betray the Hrum, crippling the army. Jiaan, Kavi and Soraya do not wish for this to happen. Soraya, with Kavi accompanying her, visits the bandits and convinces them to rob the Senate committee, which will arrive at the
Horrified by the consequences of the First War of the Races, most of the Druids at Paranor stopped studying the arcane arts and turned to the sciences of the Old World. Brona, now known as the Warlock Lord, had been behind the First War of the Races, and was thought to have died during it. But he had secretly survived, and now has come to make a new war upon the Races. He is now stronger than ever, gathering spirits from the netherworld and a massive Troll and Gnome army under his banner. Brona's first target is Paranor, the home of the Druids who defeated him during the First War of the Races. He easily wipes out the Druid order. The only survivors are the followers of Bremen, an outcast Druid who continued to study the mystic arts and tried to warn the council before it was too late. Bremen had been cast from the Druid Council because he had an interest in magic, now forbidden since the disaster that turned the Druid Brona into the Warlock Lord. As a result, the council didn't trust him. Along with Tay Trefenwyd and Risca, who are the only Druids who believe Bremen and leave with him, Bremen leaves Paranor. Later, the three are joined by Mareth, an apprentice Druid with innate magic, as well as empathic powers. After reaching the Hadeshorn and summoning the shade of Galaphile, Bremen is given four visions. Bremen learns that the Warlock Lord seeks the Black Elfstone,
Morgarath, the angry, evil ,exiled lord of the bleak, barren Mountains of Rain and Night, has been waiting for fifteen years in his dark realm, carefully planning his revenge against the Kingdom of Araluen. His former fief, known as Gorlan, was long ago brought to ruin as a result of his unsuccessful rebellion against King Duncan. Now he silently plots to rebel again, rallying creatures known as Wargals to his side. Wargals have little will of their own, and are easy to control, therefore being suitable as soldiers in Morgarath’s army. Now, after the fifteen years, Morgarath prepares to unleash his power and attempt to take the Kingdom once more. In Araluen, in the fief Redmont, a special day has come for Will, called Choosing Day, where he becomes an apprentice to a craftmaster. Although Will's first choice was Battleschool, he becomes apprenticed to Halt of the Rangers. Rangers are the intelligence group of the country and specialize in long range weapons and the art of staying unseen. Will is trained in these skills as he prepares for the annual Ranger meeting called the Gathering which is where his skills will be tested. At the Gathering the Rangers receive a report that the Kalkara, vicious creatures under the control of Morgarath, have killed important Araluen figures. Halt leaves to track down the Kalkara while Will rides for help. The Baron, Sir Rodney, and several others head out to slay the Kalkara and to save Halt. Finding where Halt is battling
Kin-Fo is a very wealthy man, who certainly does not lack material possessions. However, he is terribly bored and when news reaches him about his major investment abroad, a bank in the United States, going bankrupt, Kin-Fo decides to die. He signs up for a $200,000 life insurance covering all kinds of accidents, death in war, and even suicide. He rejects seppuku and hanging as means of dying, and is about to take opium laced with poison when he decides that he doesn't want to die without having ever felt a thrill in his life. Kin-Fo hires his old mentor, the philosopher Wang, to murder him before the life insurance expires. After a while news reaches Kin-Fo that the American bank he had invested in was not bankrupt, but instead had pulled off a stock market trick and is now wealthier than ever. Unfortunately, Wang has already disappeared. Together with two body guards assigned by the insurance company, and his loyal but lazy and incompetent servant Soun, Kin-Fo travels around the country in an effort to run away from Wang and the humiliation from the affair. One day he receives a message from Wang, stating that he can't stand the pain of having to kill one of his friends, and instead decided to take his own life while giving the task of killing Kin-Fo to a bandit he once knew. Kin-Fo, Soun and the two bodyguards now try to get to the bandit, planning to offer money in return for
There are two parts to the novel, Iron, and Inconstant Star. In “Iron”, Saxtorph and the Rover, hired by the wealthy Crashlander Laurinda Brozik, set out to explore a newly discovered red dwarf star. When they arrive, they are challenged by a Kzinti warship. Separating the crew onto the shuttles, the Rover is captured and landed on one of the moons. The first shuttle sets on Prima, the first planet, and is held fast by a planet-sized organism that begins dissolving the shuttle. They broadcast for rescue, and are refused help by the Kzin. Meanwhile, helpless to rescue their friends, Robert, Dorcas, and Laurinda make a plan to steal a tug and escape back to friendly space with the news of the Kzin base. Dorcas pilots the tug, and takes out the ship guarding the ‘’Rover’’. Robert and Laurinda land, fight off a Kzinti shuttle, and recover the Rover. They are able to rescue Juan and Carita, and destroy the base with a guided asteroid. In “Inconstant Star”, Saxtorph and crew are hired by Tyra Nordbo to redeem her father’s honor, as he was accused of collaboration with the Kzin during their occupation of Wunderland. To do so, they must use notes he had left behind and follow a ship that had left 30 years prior to investigate a concentration of gamma rays. They travel to the coordinates, and find a massive artifact made of an unknown metal. A hole in the spherical artifact is pouring out lethal radiation. As
The Sahara is being flooded to create a new sea when the protagonist of the novel, Mark Sunnet, crashes his private rocket plane into an island of what is currently little more than a large lake. He soon finds himself and his female companion sucked into an underground cavern where they are promptly captured by mysterious pygmies. The diet of little people is centred around large fungi; the captives speculate that stories which reached the surface of the little people and their giant mushrooms may have led to the myth of gnomes. Sunnet finds that a tiered community has evolved in the underground caverns - the pygmies inhabiting a large underground collection of natural and artificial caverns and tunnels, and the captured humans in a deliberately isolated subsection of the caverns. He is also surprised to learn that family life exists in the caverns - "natives", children of captured humans who were born and have lived all their lives in the caverns exist, and are generally happy with their life, and have no wish to escape. Most of the captured humans do wish to escape, and two different methods are being tried. Both are tunnels, one going up at an angle, to try and break through to the surface, and another on a level, hoping to intersect a pygmy tunnel or cavern, from where they will be able to make their way to the surface. The pygmies are distressed, and it is Sunnet's arrival that reveals why to the captives
In The Emigrants Sebald's narrator recounts his involvement with and the life stories of four different characters, all of whom are German emigrants (to England and the United States). As with most of Sebald's work, the text includes many black and white, unlabeled photographs and strays sharply from general formats of plot and narrative. Dr. Henry Selwyn is the estranged husband of Sebald's landlady, who fought in the First World War and has a propensity for gardening and tending to animals. He confides in Sebald about his family's immigration to England from Lithuania, and suspects that it is this secretive, alien past that helped dissolve his relationship with his wife. He commits suicide. Paul Bereyter was the narrator's childhood teacher in a town referenced in the text only as "S". A quarter Jewish, he found employment difficult in the period leading up to the Second World War, although he eventually served in the Wehrmacht. Teaching in the small school after the war, Bereyter found a passion for his students while living a lonely, quiet life. In later years, his eyesight began to fail and he moved to France, where he met and spent much time with Mme Landau, from whom the narrator obtains most of his information about Bereyter. The narrator's great uncle, Ambros Adelwarth, was the travelling companion of an affluent young aviator gifted with much luck at gambling and a wayward attitude towards life. In his youth, he accompanied this man across Europe, and into Turkey and Asia
Henshall's Book of Black Bass is really three books in one. There are nearly 180 pages devoted to the biology of the Black Basses known at the time. A slightly lesser number of pages in Part Second are focused on the fishing tackle necessary for successful Black Bass fishing. Henshall himself was a leading reel collector when his book was published and his chapters on fishing reels and their development are often quoted and valued by tackle collectors today. The Part Third as Henshall named it is focused on the various fishing techniques to be used in Black Bass fishing to include fly fishing. Henshall published a companion book entitled More About the Black Bass is 1889 and in 1904 published Book of the Black Bass in a revised 2nd edition that included much of the writings in More About the Black Bass. In the 1881 Preface, Henshall introduces the book thus: This book owes its origin to a long-cherished desire on the part of the author, to give to the Black Bass its proper place among game fishes, and to create among anglers, and the public generally, an interest in a fish that has never been so fully appreciated as its merits deserve, because of the want of suitable tackle for its capture, on the one hand, and a lack of information regarding its habits and economic value on the other. The Book of the Black Bass is of an entirely practical nature, both as regards its subject-matter and
Paul Sherman is a veteran Interpol Narcotics Bureau agent, used to independent action and blunt force tactics. He is assisted by two attractive female agents, one an experienced operative, the other a rookie. Sherman is in the Netherlands to break up a vicious drug smuggling ring that will kill ruthlessly to protect its operation. Before Sherman can even leave Schiphol Airport he has already witnessed the gunning down of his key contact, been knocked half-unconscious by an assassin, and tangled with local authorities. "Puppet on a Chain" has the standard twisting plot, local atmospherics, and sardonic dialogue that were Maclean's trademarks as a story-teller. Maclean allows his protagonist to have a bantering sarcastic relationship with his assistants that provides a streak of humor as the plot unfolds. Unfortunately, Sherman's relationship with his assistants is used against him. As his investigation is undermined by betrayal, leaving him constantly a half-step behind his adversaries, Sherman must resort to increasingly violent action to turn the tables. The story culminates in a violent struggle above the streets of Amsterdam to save the life of his surviving female operative.
Its action takes place twenty years after the previous play, The Marriage of Figaro: The story's premise is that several years ago, while the Count was away on a long business trip, the Countess and Chérubin spent a night together. When the Countess informed Chérubin that what they did was wrong and that she could never see him again, he went away to war and intentionally let himself be mortally wounded on the field. As he lay dying, he wrote a final letter to the Countess, declaring his love and regrets, and making mention of all the things they had done. The Countess did not have the heart to throw away the letter, and instead had a special box made by an Irishman called Bégearss, with a secret compartment in which to store the incriminating note, so the Count would never find it. Soon after, to her dismay, the Countess discovered herself pregnant with Chérubin's child. The Count has been suspicious all these years that he is not the father of Léon, the Countess's son, and so he has been rapidly trying to spend his fortune to ensure the boy won't inherit any of it, even having gone so far as to renounce his title and move the family to Paris; but he has nevertheless held some doubts, and therefore has never officially disowned the boy or even brought up his suspicions to the Countess. Meanwhile, the Count has an illegitimate child of his own, a daughter named Florestine. Bégearss
The story begins on Epiphany (6 January), 1482, the day of the Feast of Fools in Paris, France. Quasimodo, a deformed hunchback who is the bell-ringer of Notre Dame, is introduced by his crowning as the Pope of Fools. Esmeralda, a beautiful Gypsy with a kind and generous heart, captures the hearts of many men, including those of Captain Phoebus and Pierre Gringoire, a poor street poet, but especially those of Quasimodo and his adoptive father, Claude Frollo, the Archdeacon of Notre Dame. Frollo is torn between his obsessive love and the rules of the church. He orders Quasimodo to kidnap her, but the hunchback is suddenly captured by Phoebus and his guards who save Esmeralda. Quasimodo is sentenced to be flogged and turned on the pillory for one hour, followed by another hour's public exposure. He calls for water. Esmeralda, seeing his thirst, offers him a drink. It saves him, and she captures his heart. Esmeralda is later charged with the attempted murder of Phoebus, whom Frollo actually attempted to kill in jealousy after seeing him about to have sex with Esmeralda, and is tortured and sentenced to death by hanging. As she is being led to the gallows, Quasimodo swings down by the bell rope of Notre Dame and carries her off to the cathedral under the law of sanctuary. Clopin, a street performer, rallies the Truands (criminals of Paris) to charge the cathedral and rescue Esmeralda. Frollo asks the king to remove Esmeralda's right to sanctuary so
The narrator, V., is absorbed in the composition of his first literary work, a biography of his half-brother the famous Russian-born English novelist, Sebastian Knight (1899–1936). In the course of his quest he tracks down Sebastian's acquaintances from Cambridge, and interviews friends and acquaintances, including friends Helen Pratt and P.G. Sheldon, the poet Alexis Pan, and the painter Roy Carswell. In the course of his biography V. also reviews Sebastian's books (see below) and attempts to refute the views of the "misleading" biography by Knight's former secretary Mr. Goodman, The Tragedy of Sebastian Knight. Goodman maintains that Knight was too aloof and cut off from real life. V. concludes that, after a long-running romantic relationship with Clare Bishop, Sebastian's final years were addled by a love affair with another woman—a Russian whom he presumably met at a hotel in Blauberg, where Sebastian spent time recuperating from heart ailments in in June 1929. V. leaves for Blauberg, where, with the help of an unpredictable private detective, he acquires a list of the names of four women who were staying at the hotel during the same time period as Sebastian: Mademoiselle Lidya Bohemsky, of Paris; Madame de Rechnoy, also of Paris; Helene Grinstein, of Berlin; and Helene von Graun, who, despite her German name, spoke Russian and also lived in Paris. V. is intent on tracking down each of the women to interview them. After dismissing the possibility of Helene Grinstein, his search leads him to Paris, and the list narrows to
Kenneth Kilsyth, a young clerk in a London counting house, and a most reluctant employee, wins £1000 in a football pool (nearly £200,000 at present-day prices calculated as average earnings, or over £43,000 calculated as retail price index). Inviting his sole friend and fellow clerk, Gerald Hayes, to join him, he embarks on a journey of adventure. Some time later, they find themselves the sole passengers on a merchant ship, the S.S. Mumtaz, steaming from Vancouver to Honolulu, but all the officers and most of the sailors are quickly wiped out by a mysterious disease, leaving the two passengers the only people alive. Bridges, the quartermaster of the crew, survives long enough to help dispose of the bodies overboard and shows the lads how to rig a sail on to the wallowing freighter. Under the influence of the North-East trade winds and the North Equatorial current, the Mumtaz eventually drifts over a coral reef and lodges on the leeward side. The boys are near an island, and arming themselves with guns from the captain’s cabin, they land on the island. At dawn, atop a small hill, they are confronted by an army of 'savages'. But the natives attack on stilts (the ground is taboo to them) and the boys are able to defend themselves. The attack is suddenly called off by an elderly white man who speaks broken English. He reveals that he was shipwrecked many years before and has become 'King' of the island, called Kilba. This is in
Ten years have passed since the end of the first Chronicles. After his experiences in the Land, Thomas Covenant has resumed his career as a writer. He is still isolated from society, but he has come to terms with that and with the other mental and physical consequences of his leprosy. The story begins by presenting us with a new main character, with the prologue being told entirely from her point of view. Linden Avery is a doctor who has moved to Covenant's hometown to take a position at the local hospital. Her traumatic childhood and rigorous medical training have left her emotionally isolated from other people. In her own way, she is as much an outsider in society as Covenant. The chief of staff at the hospital (who appeared briefly in the first Chronicles) asks her to check up on Covenant. Linden, reluctantly, drives to Covenant's house outside of town. On the way, she sees an elderly man in an ochre robe collapse by the side of the road. Using CPR, she revives him: he makes a number of cryptic pronouncements and walks off, telling her to "be true". Confused and disturbed by this strange encounter, Linden continues on to Covenant's house. Although he initially brushes her off, she is persistent, and finds that Covenant's estranged wife has returned to him, but that she is under the influence of a cult of worshippers of Lord Foul, who has found a way to exert his influence in Covenant's world. After
After the intervention of Spirou and Fantasio in New York, the former mafia boss Don Vito Cortizone (from Spirou à New York) is deposed and is now called "Unlucky Vito". Cortizone's only hope of returning to power resides in the mysterious cargo of a seaplane which flies him over the Pacific. As the plane's pilot, Von Schnabbel, tries to extort money from him, the two men argue and Von Schnabbel is ejected from the cockpit. Cortizone is left alone with the plane's controls. After crashing the aircraft on the bottom of a lagoon in an atoll, he is helped by Spirou and Fantasio, on holiday nearby, who initially do not recognize him. Taking advantage of Fantasio's feelings of depression, Cortizone neutralizes Spirou thanks to a homemade drug, and persuades Fantasio to retrieve his cargo. This cargo later proves to be a large quantity of bad luck charms, stolen from Chinese Triads. However, the Chinese arrive, guided by Von Schnabbel. Cortizone, Spirou and Fantasio are taken captive but the two heroes manage to flee by leaving Cortizone and Von Schnabbel on the atoll, while the Chinese become victims of an explosion. <!--
Gordon Reeve, a former SAS soldier, receives a phone call in his home in Scotland, informing him that his brother Jim has been found dead in a car in San Diego - the car being locked from the inside, and the gun still in Jim's hand. While in the USA to identify the body, Gordon realises that his brother was murdered, and that the police is more than reluctant to follow any lead. Retracing Jim's final hours, he connects Jim's death with his work as a journalist, investigating a multinational chemical corporation. Soon, Gordon finds himself under surveillance, and decides to find out more among Jim's acquaintances back in Europe. In London, he finds more hints, but no evidence for his brother's sources. After returning to his wife and son, he finds that his home has been bugged by professionals. Sending his wife and son to a relative, he determines to take on his enemy on his own. Interestingly, there are two parties after him: The multinational corporation, represented by "Jay", a renegade SAS member, and an international investigation corporation, somehow connected with the case. Traveling to France, in order to find out more from a journalist colleague of Jim's, they are attacked by a group of professional killers under orders from Jay, resulting in multiple deaths, and leading to Gordon becoming a police target. Gordon decides to return to the USA, where he infiltrates the investigation corporation, and learns more about the history of the case. Then he travels
Declan Ross, accepting the British offer of pardons to pirates who would turn from their illegal trade, is now attempting to convince other pirates to do the same. Meanwhile, rumors have arisen that Bartholomew Thorne, formerly thought to have been killed in a flood, is alive and plotting. Cat, who has been staying with a group of monks for a time, has been offered the task of commanding a ship full of fighting monks on a mission to hunt down the elusive Merchant. He accepts, and with Ross's permission, takes Anne on as quartermaster. While Ross combs the sea for news of Thorne, Cat and Anne discover the Merchant's underwater lair. Eventually they are separated from their comrades and, in the ensuing battle with the Merchant himself, Anne escapes the lair while Cat is captured. Anne is picked up by the Robert Bruce and Cat, trapped in a cell on the Merchant's ship, is faced with a choice: become the evil man's apprentice or die. The Merchant arranges a meeting with Thorne himself and offers to return Cat to his father for a price. Bartholomew, however, hatefully refuses. Meanwhile, Lady Dolphin, Commodore Blake, and their young friend Hopper sail to an island where Thorne was reportedly last seen. There the two adults are captured by the Raukar, Viking descendants who are under Thorne's leadership. Hopper is able to rescue Blake but Lady Dolphin remains prisoner. While in Bartholomew's captivity, he and she discover that Dolphin is Thorne's daughter, the child
The play begins with three pages disputing over the black cloak usually worn by the actor who delivers the prologue. They draw lots for the cloak, and one of the losers, Anaides, starts telling the audience what happens in the play to come; the others try to suppress him, interrupting him and putting their hands over his mouth. Soon they are fighting over the cloak and criticizing the author and the spectators as well. In the play proper, the goddess Diana, or Cynthia, has ordained a "solemn revels" in the valley of Gargaphie in Greece. The gods Cupid and Mercury appear, and they too start to argue. Mercury has awakened Echo, who weeps for Narcissus, and states that a drink from Narcissus's spring causes the drinkers to "Grow dotingly enamored of themselves." The courtiers and ladies assembled for the Cynthia's revels all drink from the spring. Asotus, a foolish spendthrift who longs to become a courtier and a master of fashion and manners, also drinks from the spring; emboldened by vanity and self-love, he challenges all comers to a competition of "court compliment." The competition is held, in four phases, and the courtiers are beaten. Two symbolic masques are performed within the play for the assembled revelers. At their conclusion, Cynthia (representing Queen Elizabeth) has the dancers unmask and shows that vices have masqueraded as virtues. She sentences them to make reparation and to purify themselves by bathing in the spring at Mount Helicon. The figure of Actaeon in the
Joe Stoshack goes back in time to find out whether Babe Ruth called his shot in the 1932 world series. His dad tags along to keep him safe, per his mom's request, and to try to make some money, because he has just gotten laid off. Joe Stoshack ends up meeting Babe Ruth right after almost getting killed by a guy with a knife. Babe Ruth assumes that Joe has just saved him from an assassination attempt, so he invites Joe and his dad to come along with him. Joe's dad gets Babe Ruth to sign a bunch of baseballs, fulfilling what he wanted to do, and then they go to the baseball game, fulfilling what Joe wanted to do. However, Joe's dad sees presidentential hopeful Franklin Roosevelt (Who was elected president a month later) in the stands, and tries to warn him about the Holocaust. But security guards see him as a potential assassin, and take him away. Joe ends up watching the game and discovers that Babe Ruth really did call his shot and then gets re-united with his dad. His dad's sack of baseballs that got signed by Babe Ruth were confiscated, but he doesn't care because he got to spend some quality time with his son, something that almost never happens. Then they return to the present and Joe Stoshack hits a Walk-Off home run in his next Little League game, somewhat mirroring Babe Ruth's home run.
The novel's plot has been called a plot of female socialization, in which the hero is taught by the heroine how to live peacefully in society. Mauprat resembles the fairy tale "Beauty and the beast". As this would suggest, the novel is a romance. However, Sand resists the immediate happy ending of marriage between the two main characters in favor of a more gradual story of education, including a reappraisal of the passive female role in courtship and marriage. Sand also calls into question Rousseau's ideal version of the female education as described in his novel Émile, namely, training women for domesticity and the home. The novel, set before the French Revolution, depicts the coming of age of a nobleman named Bernard Mauprat. The story is narrated by the old Bernard in his country home many years later, as told to a nameless young male visitor. Bernard recounts how, raised by a violent gang of his feudal kinsmen after the death of his mother, he becomes a brutalized "enfant sauvage". When his cousin Edmée is held captive by Bernard's "family", he helps her escape, but elicits a promise of marriage from her by threatening rape. Thus begins the long courtship of Bernard and Edmée. The novel ends with a trial similar to the one in Stendhal's The Red and the Black. During the period Sand wrote the novel, she was gradually becoming more interested in the problem of political equality in society and in the views of socialist thinkers such
The story is about 17-year-old Gwendolyn/Gwennie (Gwen) who lives in New York City with her grandfather. One day her grandfather disappears leaving only a phone message telling Gwen not to worry about him. Gwen continues her life as normal as possible while trying to practice for her violin auditions. She then meets Robert (Bobby) from Things Not Seen in a cafe. Robert is in town also preparing for trumpet auditions.Gwen invites Robert to stay in her empty house with her to help get him out of the hotel he was staying in. While shopping in Niketown Store in New York City, Gwen and Robert spot a faint shadow apparently coming from an invisible person. Robert then tells her that two years ago he turned invisible. In the following days Robert discovers Gwen's grandfather dead in the freezer. The other invisible man is found in Gwen's house after the discovery of her grandfather. The man named William started to seek out Robert to find out how to undo the invisibility. William also is revealed to be a womanizing thief. The mystery of Gwen's grandfather's death is closed when the grandfather's lawyer reads out a letter written the last day the grandfather was alive. The letter contains the will of the grandfather. Detectives decide that the grandfather knew he would die so he hid in the freezer. The detectives also say that the grandfather went in with an oxygen bottle, thick clothes, and left the refrigerator slightly open so he could have
The plot revolves around Sylvia Barrett, an idealistic English teacher at an inner-city high school who hopes to nurture her students' interest in classic literature (especially Chaucer) and writing. She quickly becomes discouraged during her first year teaching, frustrated by dumb bureaucracy (the name of the novel refers to an infraction one of her students is punished for), the indifference of her students, and the incompetence of many of her colleagues. She decides to leave public school to work in a smaller private setting. Her mind is changed, however, by the realization that she has indeed touched the lives of her students. The novel is epistolary in form: aside from opening and closing chapters consisting entirely of dialog, the story is told through documents, such as memos from the office, fragments of notes dropped in the trash can, essays that are handed in to be graded, lesson plans, suggestions dropped in the class suggestion box, and letters written by Barrett to a friend from college who chose to get married and start a family rather than pursue a career. The letters serve as a recap and summary of key events in the book, and offer a portrait of women's roles and responsibilities in American society in the mid-1960s as well. The book's title comes from a memo to teachers, instructing them to make sure that students "do not walk up the down staircase." The novel is set at the time just after the banning of School prayer and during early
The Ship's Cat is introduced as a patriotic swashbuckling crewmember of the English privateer Alcestis. After attacking a lone Spanish ship, the Alcestis is defeated by Spanish reinforcements and its crew taken as captives to the Panamanian port of Chagres. The Ship's Cat is initially imprisoned, but the gaoler's daughter takes pity on him and has him released to serve in the gaoler's kitchen. After the gaoler and his companions become drunk celebrating Saint Philip's Day, the Ship's Cat steals the keys to the gaol and releases his shipmates. Together, they steal a ship from the harbor and sail for home, pursued by their erstwhile captors. Their pursuers are frightened off by the sudden appearance of Sir Francis Drake (outward bound on his global circumnavigation of 1577). After Drake departs, the Ship's Cat reveals that he has discovered a hoard of treasure in the ship's hold. The crew sail home to England, where they are greeted as heroes and the Cat is knighted by Queen Elizabeth I.
The book begins with separate narratives focusing on Patrick Mac and Alder, the Travelers of Third Earth and Denduron respectively. It follows the changes in their home territories and their realization that they are without Bobby Pendragon. On Denduron, the Bedoowan and Milago tribe are using the explosive tak that Bobby unearthed with a dygo from Zadaa to start a war with a neighboring tribe, the Lowsee tribe. On Third Earth, the once Utopian planet has morphed into a waste world. Bobby Pendragon, meanwhile, has been living comfortably on Ibara, the island community located on Veelox. Pendragon's own description states that he has been a contributor and leader of the rebuilding of Ibara, which was destroyed in the previous book by Saint Dane's Dimond Alpha Digital Organization D.A.D.O.army. Days after an unsettling conversation with Saint Dane, Pendragon encounters a drifting skimmer bearing a dying passenger on board (this passenger being Loque, one of the Jakills from The Pilgrims of Rayne who amazingly survived having a large amount of broken glass fall on him and slaving underneath Saint Dane while trying to dig up the flume in Rubic City along with the other Flighters). After hearing Loque's story, Bobby assumes that Saint Dane is after the flume and decides to prevent the flume from being reopened. He fails, and later discovers that Nevva Winter, Saint Dane's ally, has been living on Ibara disguised as Tribune Genj's daughter, Telleo, whom she killed months before. Hearing from her that Denduron is in danger,
Due to damages suffered, the SS Normandie was forced to turn around and sail back towards New York. On board, fighting back fears and tears as she watched the waters which she believed claimed the man she loved, Maggie Darr swore to continue his fight against the Brotherhood, despite the impossible odds. Unknown to herself, she still had allies she knew nothing about back in New York, watching over her as she made her way back to Agent 13's lair. Also unknown to her, China White had Agent 13 fished out of the waters, and despite him almost being dead, managed to arrange for him to be secretly transported back to the headquarters of the Brotherhood. In New York, Maggie reviewed the situation and decided to approach Kent Walters, the National Security Advisor who was recuperating in the Bethesda Naval Hospital. Walters had been injured during the events in the first book, ambushed along with Agent 13 by Brotherhood's assassins which saw the massacre of all other members of the National Security Council. She managed to gain Walters' cooperation who suggested she investigate General Hunter Braddock who was in charge of the Lightning Gun project. Braddock was also involved with China White in her diva persona. Meanwhile, Agent 13 was brought back from the brink of death, and told frankly by his former mentor, Jinda-dii, High Priest of the Serpentine Assassins, that he would be brainwashed to be the assassin the Brotherhood was training him to be, and be sent
The first part of the work stays closer to the traditional story as told by verse writers like Béroul and Thomas of Britain, but many episodes are reworked or altered entirely. Tristan's parents are given new names and backstories, and the overall tone has been called "more realistic" than the verse material though there are moments where characters sing. Tristan's guardian Governal takes him to France, where he grows up at the court of King Pharamond. He later arrives at the court of his uncle Mark, King of Cornwall, and defends his country against the Irish warrior Morholt. Wounded in the fight, he travels to Ireland where he is healed by Iseult, a renowned doctor and Morholt's niece, but he must flee when the Irish discover he has killed their champion. He later returns, in disguise, to seek Iseult as a bride for his uncle. When they accidentally drink the love potion prepared for Iseult and Mark, they engage in a tragic affair that ends with Tristan being banished to the court of Hoel of Brittany. He eventually marries Hoel's daughter, also named Iseult. Especially after this point, however, the traditional narrative is continually interrupted for side adventures by the various characters and episodes serving to "Arthurianize" the story. Notably, Tristan's rivalry with the Saracen knight Palamedes is given substantial attention. Additionally, in the long version, Tristan leaves Brittany and returns to his first love, and never sees his wife again, though her brother Kahedin remains his close companion. Tristan
The story of The Third Eye begins in Tibet during the reign of the 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso. Tuesday Lobsang Rampa, the son of a Lhasa aristocrat, takes up theological studies and is soon recognised for his prodigious abilities. As he enters adolescence, the young Rampa undertakes increasingly challenging feats until he is recognised as a crucial asset to the future of an independent Tibet. Tibet's Lamas had foretold a future in which China would attempt to reassert its authority, and Rampa is operated upon to help him preserve his country. A third eye is drilled into his forehead, allowing him to see human auras and to determine people's hidden motivations. With his third eye, Rampa can serve as an aide in the Dalai Lama's court and spy on visitors to the court as they are being received. The visitors upon whom Rampa spies include the scholar Sir Charles Alfred Bell, deemed by Rampa as naive but benevolent. In contrast, Rampa and others are certain that Chinese visitors are nefarious and are soon to attempt to bring conquest and destruction to Tibet. Tibet must then prepare for an invasion. During the story, Rampa meets yetis, and at the end of the book he encounters a mummified body that was him in an earlier incarnation. He also takes part in an initiation ceremony in which he learns that during its early history the planet Earth was struck by another planet, causing Tibet to become the mountain kingdom that it is
Sam, an owl, wakes up one night looking for someone to play with. However, since it is the middle of the night, all the creatures are asleep. Sam then comes across a series of flying lights, one of which hits Sam in the head. It is Gus, the firefly. Gus shows Sam the trick he can do, which is he can make glowing lines in midair using his light. Sam is amazed, and decides to have fun by having Gus follow him directly as he flies. Sam flies in the shape of various words; Gus finds this fun and decides to do more on his own. However, he has mischief on his mind. First, he causes several cars to crash at an intersection by displaying "Go left", "go right", "stop", and "go" above. Sam wants to talk to him about this behavior, that is dangerous and bad; however, Gus abandons Sam as he thinks Sam doesn't know how to have fun. Gus then continues to cause mischief; he causes several airplanes to get crossed up by displaying random directions, he causes people to overflow into a movie theater by displaying "COME IN! FREE SHOW" above it, and changes a sign from "HOT DOGS" to "COLD DOGS", deterring the hot dog maker's customers. The hot dog maker immediately nets Gus and puts him a jar and into his pickup truck. Sam sees this and is determined to save him. Gus regrets not listening to Sam in the first place about having
The tale begins in a farmyard which is home to a duck called Jemima Puddle-duck. She wants to hatch her own eggs, but the farmer's wife believes ducks make poor sitters and routinely confiscates their eggs to allow the hens to incubate them. Jemima tries to hide her eggs, but they are always found and carried away. She sets off along the road in poke bonnet and shawl to find a safe place away from the farm to lay her eggs. At the top of a hill, she spies a distant wood, flies to it, and waddles about until she discovers an appropriate nesting place. However, a charming gentleman with "black prick ears and sandy-coloured whiskers" persuades her to nest in a shed at his home. Jemima is led to his "tumble-down shed" (which is curiously filled with feathers), and makes herself a nest with little ado. Jemima lays her eggs, and the fox suggests a dinner party to mark the event. He asks her to collect the traditional herbs used in stuffing a duck, telling her the seasonings will be used for an omelette. Jemima sets about her errand, but the farm collie, Kep, meets her as she carries onions from the farm kitchen. She reveals her errand, and Kep sees through the fox's plan at once. With the help of two fox-hound puppies, Kep rescues Jemima and the "foxy-whiskered gentleman" is chased away and never seen again. However, the hungry fox-hounds eat Jemima's eggs. Jemima is escorted back
The story begins with Max going to his friend's house. His friend is not there, and Max only manages to find his friend's over-protective Mom, who attempts to walk him home. Max thinks she's crazy, and rides away quickly on his bike to the entrance of the woods. This shows the reader a bit of Max's problems. Later, Max builds a snow fort in his backyard complete with a flag and shelves containing snowballs. When Claire, Max's sister, and her friends go outside while the boys in the group chew tobacco, Max begins a great snowball fight. After throwing a few, he runs back into his snow fort, thinking he is safe. This is not true, and the boys find it easily because of his flag. One of the boys jumps on the fort causing it to collapse and suffocate Max. Max comes up crying, and his sister Claire does nothing to help him. Max is now filled with rage. Max goes upstairs to Claire's room and commences in dumping water all over it, breaking a few of her belongings as well. Later, his mom comes home from work to find Max hiding in his bed, feeling bad about what he's done. He then reluctantly shows her what he did to Claire's room. Exasperated but really too tired to be angry with him, they clean up the mess together.
The Emersons return to Egypt in 1895-96 to excavate at Dahshoor - finally, some real pyramids for Amelia! In looking for a keeper for Ramses, they find a demoralized Englishman named Donald Fraser. Donald has troubled family relationships and a hashish habit, both of which Amelia means to reform. Enid Debenham, a young lady whose behavior scandalizes Cairo society, also takes a hand when Amelia takes her under her wing. Meanwhile, the Master Criminal reappears personally, taking an interest not only in illegally obtained antiquities but in the person of Amelia herself. The story is key in the series because it is the first time the reader learns the pseudonym of the Master Criminal: Sethos. It is the name of a number of Pharaohs, and is tied to Set or Seth, the Egyptian god of the desert. Sethos interacts in a number of ways, including offering gifts and returning the communion set stolen from Mazghuna the previous year. Sethos also appears in a number of guises, only one of which Amelia sees through. She does, however, assume a number of others are either Sethos or in his gang, almost always incorrectly. Donald and Enid return in a later novel, Seeing a Large Cat.
The story begins with the main character, Afsan, looking at the stars and reflecting upon his arrival at Capital city, where he is working as an apprentice under the Court Astrologer, Tak-Saleed. Afsan is but one of many apprentice astrologers Saleed has gone through, each one sent away for reasons unknown. Later on, Afsan, in a hurry to rendezvous with his mentor, unwittingly stumbles across a confrontation between Saleed and his old creche-mate, the master mariner Var-Keenir. Keenir has brought with him a new invention called a "Far-Seer". He offers it to Saleed in hopes that it would be useful in his work, but the old astrologer, set in his ways, haughtily refuses the offer. Afsan, however, is eager to use the Far Seer to look at The Face of God, (a mysterious object which hangs in the sky that the Quintaglios worship). Outraged and offended by the suggestion, Saleed berates Afsan and sends him to the palace Hall of Worship to pay penance for his blasphemy. After arriving at the hall of worship, Afsan runs into Det-Yenalb, Master of the Faith. The high priest notices Afsan's height and notes that he's old enough that he should have gone on his coming-of-age pilgrimage to see The Face of God. Yenalb recommends that Afsan go on a hunt first, as many are lost during the Pilgrimage and he has yet to earn his hunting tattoo; any Quintaglio who hasn't yet earned one will not be allowed into heaven. Afsan heeds Yenalb's
Renn, a gifted but often bullied Eight Year novice in the Echorium who can speak to Half-Creatures, is asked to assist the Singers by translating for Shaiala Two-Hoof, a wild girl brought to the Island for treatment, who claims to have been raised by centaurs. Although initially the pair argue, meeting Rialle helps to calm Shaiala and she begins to remember, enough to reveal that her memories were wiped using a mask made of khiz. Second Singer Kherron takes this excuse to insist that Shaiala and Renn leave with him to search for Frazhin, the escaped khizpriest whose body was never found. After this revelation, Rialle takes Shaiala, who was very disturbed by her recolllections, and Renn to come to the cave where she lives and meet the merlee. While Shaiala swims with the merlee, Renn rejects their friendly offers and is horrified to learn that "crazy" Rialle is his mother. The next day, Renn and Shaiala leave with Kherron on the Wavesong, heading to Southport. On the journey, Renn is irritable and offends Shaiala by refusing to believe her tales of centaurs. Kherron also gives Shaiala a bluestone necklace. Upon arrival, the group begin to explore Southport and Shaiala, despite being closelyguarded by a pentad of orderlies including Frenn and Lazim, escapes, only to become lost in the rough part of the city. She is kidnapped and thrown in a cellar with several street children, and Erihan, the son of Lord Nahar, the leader of the Kalerei tribe of
In 1966 disgraced British colonel bequeaths a mysterious letter to his only son. The "item in question" that Adam's father's letter leads him to acquire from a safe deposit box in Switzerland is a precious Russian Orthodox icon made long ago for the Russian czars which by misadventure came into the possession of Hermann Göring sometime in the 1930s. Göring wanted Scott's father (one of his jailers at Nuremberg) to have it in token of his kind treatment and because Göring realized Scott's father would be unfairly blamed for his pre-execution suicide. But the icon contains something that even Göring did not dream of: the only official Russian copy of a secret codicil to the Alaska Purchase treaty by which the United States purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867. "Seward's Folly" turns out to have not been a true purchase at all, but a 99-year lease akin to the British hold on Hong Kong, with a right of return to Russia (now the part of the Soviet Union) if they can only retrieve their copy before the lease deadline, only days away.
Jango begins with Seeker, Morning Star and Wildman who are all being taught in the Nom and are near the end of their training. Their teacher, Chance, mentions the secret skill of a Noble Warrior, and tells them a new teacher will be assigned to them to help them attain this secret skill. He then hands them over to Miriander, who puts them through training to learn how to control another's will by using lir. Once this training is over, it is discovered that Seeker has power without limits. Unlike the other Noble Warriors, he is able to suck the lir out of any living thing and doesn't get weary doing so. He fights and defeats Chance. Afterwards, he is told to stay in one place while the Elder and the council of the Nomana decide what to do with him, as they feel that they should not loose such power in the world, yet he might be the one the save the Nomana. In the trees of the forest called the Glimmen lives Echo Kittle who is described as being pale, slender and beautiful. She is captured by the Orlan leader, Amroth Jahan, who intends to arrange a marriage between her and one of his sons. She refuses to do so until the Jahan threatens to burn down the Glimmen and kill everyone in it. She decides to go along with them and soon they arrive in Radiance, which is led by Soren Similin. After a series of events
The main character in the story is Eddie Carbone, an Italian American longshoreman, who lives with his wife, Beatrice and his orphaned niece, Catherine. As the play begins, Eddie is protective and kind toward Catherine, although his feelings grow into something more than avuncular as the play develops. His attachment to her is brought into perspective by the arrival from Italy of Beatrice's two cousins, Marco and Rodolpho. They have entered the country illegally, hoping to leave behind hunger and unemployment for a better life in America. Marco is an exceptionally strong man, said by Eddie's friends to be 'a regular bull.' He also has a starving family in Italy (a wife, and 3 sons, one with tuberculosis). Rodolpho is in his late 20's, fair skinned, blond, and unattached. He is unconventional in that he sings (notably 'paper doll'), dances, is good at sewing and dress making and is also a good cook. Catherine soon begins a relationship with Rodolpho. After three weeks, the pair have been seeing each other, and Eddie sets about pointing out all of Rodolpho's flaws to Catherine and Beatrice. He persistently complains that Rodolpho is "not right," referring to Rodolpho's effeminate qualities, such as sewing, cooking and singing. He is embarrassed by Rodolpho's reputation for singing during work. When Catherine decides to marry Rodolpho, Eddie becomes desperate and begs his lawyer, Alfieri (who is also the narrator), to help him. However, he is told that the only way the law is able to help him
Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes are each on the trail, seeking to expose a ruthless villain and ensure the safety of Holmes' artist son, Damian Adler, and Adler's half-Chinese daughter, three year old Estelle. The search involves the British practitioners of a religious cult called The Children of Lights with roots in Shanghai, China. The plot picks up in the summer of 1924 near an ancient circle of standing stones on Orkney Island, shortly after religious fanatic Thomas Brothers, who seeks to unleash psychic energies through human sacrifice, shot Holmes's artist son, Damian Adler. Holmes's search for medical help to save his son's life takes him to Holland, while Mary travels through Britain in an effort to keep Estelle safe from Brothers and his allies. Brothers' shadowy connections have led to a conspiracy deeply entrenched in the highest echelons of government. Mycroft Holmes finds himself questioned and under suspicion and the family members are actively pursued by Scotland Yard. In the process a modern-day Robin Goodfellow emerges to lend aid to Mary and her kin.
A writer called Fernando returns to Medellín after an absence of 30 years. He finds the place transformed into Colombia's "capital of hate". Fernando meets Alexis, 16 years old, a male prostitute and a hitman - a Medellín child - with whom he falls in love. But their tender love is doomed. Alexis needs no reason to kill: like an Angel of Death he opens fire on anybody who rubs him the wrong way. Fernando and Alexis are bound by an intense passion as they wander from church to church, murder to murder. Alexis explains to Fernando the meanings and symbols of the dangerous world of the Medellín guns, while the author tells the boys the remembrances of his childhood in a Medellín that is not more the one he knew. When Alexis is finally killed by two teenagers on a motorbike, Fernando looks for his killer. He finds Wilmar, another boy who keeps a surprising resemblance with late Alexis, not only in his body but also in his behaviors. Trying to live the same with Wilmar, he is soon informed that he is dating with the killer of Alexis. But he can not kill him, because Wilmar confessed to him that Alexis killed his brother before. Fernando proposed to Wilmar to leave the country. The boy agreed, but when he goes to his home to greet his mother for the last time, he is killed also. Fernando winds up alone in the middle of a city where love seems
After John (J.R.R. Tolkien), Jack (C.S. Lewis), and Charles (Charles Williams) return from their last adventure in the Archipelago, they spend five years in the Summer Country, our world. The Caretakers form a group at Oxford, including two close friends, Hugo Dyson and Owen Barfield. Hugo has become so close a friend that John and Jack consider making him an apprentice Caretaker of the Imaginarium Geographica and the Archipelago. Soon after they show Hugo the Geographica, he shows them a book sent to him from Charles, who is in France. The book has a mysterious foreword supposedly written by Hugo in his own blood. They decide to take a walk to take a break from all the confusion. Hugo enters a door in the wood and disappears somewhere in time. Hugo believes that he is being pranked by his companions, but eventually realizes this is not the case. John and Jack meet the Royal Animal Rescue Team, a group of badgers led by Uncas - the son of Tummeler - and his son Fred. They inform the men that fourteen years ago they were ordered to save John, Jack and Charles from an unknown event in the near future. Preparing to leave, Uncas unknowingly shuts the mysterious door, the remainder of the rescue team and the surrounding Oxford area to vanish. Noting the new desiccated land that lies before them called Albion, the group sets out to discover what has become of their world. After they escape from giants contained
In this installment of Stephanie Plum's bounty hunter adventures, Stephanie has no central FTA (Failure to Appear) to capture this time around, but is being hunted herself. The novel begins with Stephanie and her sometimes-partner Lula sitting outside in their car debating about food. They accidentally witness a Gang robbery and are swept up into the underground life of Trenton, New Jersey. She's accidentally destroyed a dozen cars. She's a target for every psycho and miscreant this side of the Jersey Turnpike. Her mother's convinced she'll end up dead...or worse, without a man. She's Stephanie Plum and she kicks butt for a living (well, she thought it would sound good to put it that way...) It begins as an innocent trip to the deli-mart, on a quest for nachos. But Stephanie Plum and her partner, Lula, are clearly in the wrong place at the wrong time. A robbery leads to an explosion, which leads to the destruction of yet another car. It would be just another day in the life of Stephanie Plum, except it makes her the target of a gang... and the target of an even scarier, more dangerous force that has come to Trenton. With super bounty hunter Ranger acting more mysterious than ever (and the tension with vice cop Joe Morelli getting hotter), Stephanie finds herself with a decision to make: how to protect herself and where to hide while on the hunt for a killer known as Junkman. There's only one safe place, and it
Monsieur Pierre de la Motte and his wife, Madame Constance de la Motte, are fleeing Paris in an attempt to escape his creditors. Pierre, Madame, and their two domestic servants, Peter and Annette, are waylaid when the path they’re on becomes too dark to follow any longer. Pierre exits the carriage and continues on foot toward a light he notices some distance away from the carriage. Upon knocking on the door of a small and ancient house, Pierre is admitted into the house by a stranger. He is given a bed and promptly locked in the room. Sometime later, the door to Pierre’s room is unlocked and a beautiful young lady, Adeline, is being dragged behind the stranger who admitted Pierre to the house. The stranger states that “if you wish to save your life, swear that you will convey this girl where I may never see her more; or rather consent to take her with you.” Upon agreement to take Adeline with him, Pierre and Adeline are conveyed to the carriage by the ruffian stranger with Madame still inside. The family, with the addition of Adeline, proceeds into the darkened interior of a forest, hoping to elude discovery and heeding the warnings of the stranger to not come back on the land they just left. Eventually, they find refuge in a ruined abbey after their wagon wheel breaks. Initially, everyone in the group except Peter is afraid of what lies in waiting behind the abbey walls; however, closer inspection
Pwyll, the prince of Dyved, offends Arawn, ruler of Annwn (the underworld), by baiting his hunting hounds on a stag that Arawn's dogs had brought down. In recompense he agrees to exchanges places with Arawn for a year. Arawn is pledged to fight his enemy Havgan, whom Walton represents as a member of a conquering eastern pantheon, by whom he is detined to be defeated unless the mortal takes his place. Pwyll must overcome a number of foes to reach the Land of the Dead, and additional perils on his way to face Havgan, the worst threat of all, a deity whose evil is masked by an attractive beauty. Nonetheless, Pwyll manages to overcome his foe. For the remainder of the year he enjoys the luxury and prerogatives of the lord of Annwn in Arawn's guise, until the time comes to trade places again. He does not, however, sleep with Arawn's wife, thus earning the lord of Annwn's gratitude. On his return to the mortal realm Pwyll encounters Rhiannon of the Birds, a beautiful maiden whose ambling horse cannot be overtaken. To win her hand he must overcome Gwawl, a rival suitor to whom she is betrothed. He ultimately succeeds by trapping Gwawl in a magic bag that can never be filled and having him beaten to death in the bag. Pwyll and Rhiannon have a son, but the baby disappears the night after his birth, and the mother, suspected of murdering him, is sentenced to a humiliating punishment. In
The Riddles of Epsilon focuses on the character of Jessica (‘Jess’), who moves with her mother and father to the fictional island of Lume, far from the mainland (Scotland), after being expelled from school. While speaking to her friend Avril in an internet chatroom, Jess encounters the mysterious character of ‘V,’ who begins to warn her of an impeding danger, relating to Lume’s distant past. Later she dreams of a boy named Sebastian, who she realizes lived in the same house as her nearly one hundred years previously. As the story progresses, events in Jess’s life begin to parallel those of Sebastian’s, particularly the fact that both the children’s mothers seem to be acting incredibly strangely. Much of the exposition in the novel is handled by way of riddles and clues, which take the form of puzzles and images, through which Jess discovers, with the help of ‘V,’ the truth about the strange events taking place on Lume. Jess, having recently moving house to the Island of Lume after being expelled from school, is talking with her friend Avril in an internet chatroom, when someone called V also appears in the chatroom, who kicks Avril out of the chatroom. He talks about her being on Lume, despite her not mentioning the name to Avril. Later, exploring the island, Jess discovers a small cottage in the forest near the "Big House", where she now lives. On the black obsidian doorstep are carved symbols and the words "WHERE _ _ SILON DWELLS".
In the year 2002, the Berlin Zoo acquires a new specimen: "Fritz", a biped from "Brecht's planet." Fritz is intelligent, and his keepers treat him with a mix of courtesy and disdain; he is kept in a display with another (presumably female) biped and the two are required to work for a living, transcribing tapes made by explorers to their planet. One day, Martin Naumchik, a human male, is visiting the zoo when his personality and that of the biped are interchanged. The switch is the unintended consequence of an experiment in time travel that takes place at another location. The remainder of the story follows the two characters as they come to terms with their new bodies and new feelings. Martin quickly becomes aware of the degradation of being a zoo animal, while Fritz is forced to cope with life in a confusing and threatening alien society. Martin tries, and fails, to convince his captors that he is imprisoned in the biped's body; the biped, in Martin's body, eventually comes into contact with Martin's colleagues and his lover, and manages to continue with Martin's life. The novel also deals wryly with the theme of sexual identity. Because Fritz is provided with inguinal glands resembling a human male's, he is presumed to be male. But it turns out that the organ has nothing to do with reproduction: Fritz is a female, and the smaller primate with whom he shares a cage is a male. To reproduce, the female aggressively bites
Takeo and Kaede are now the prosperous rulers of the Three Countries. They have three daughters, Shigeko, and twins Miki and Maya. Shigeko, the eldest daughter and heir, has been trained as a boy as she will inherit the domain of Maruyama when she comes of age, and the Three Countries upon Takeo's death. Maya and Miki, on the other hand, are seen as cursed not only because of the superstitious beliefs concerning twins, but also because of their Tribe talents, indicated by the Kikuta lines on their palms. They are feared and ignored by many, including their mother, but are well loved by Takeo and Shigeko. Takeo's only fear is that the prophecy concerning his death will be realized - he can only be killed by his son. Kaede soon gives birth to Takeo’s second son. A new threat to Takeo has appeared. Arai Zenko and his wife Hana have allied with the Saga Hideki, a warlord who has conquered the rest of the Eight Islands in the name of the powerless Emperor, Kikuta Akio, the Master of the exiled Kikuta family, and the Western foreigners (Portuguese), to destroy Takeo. Muto Kenji, at the end of his years, attempts in vain to negotiate with the Akio and see his grandson, Hisao. Hisao, really Takeo’s son and future killer, has no Tribe talents leading Akio to abuse him, but as Kenji attempts to flee with him he sees that Hisao is a ghostmaster, capable of communicating and controlling the souls
In Roman times, Macey is an ex-soldier with a group of deserters. He has berserker fits in which he fights like ten men, using an old stone axe. Escaping from a local tribe, the "Cats" at Rudheath, the soldiers find a stockaded Cat village at Barthomley, which they pillage, killing all the inhabitants except for a young girl, whom they take as a slave. They try to "go tribal", pretending to be members of another tribe, the "Mothers", and settle on Mow Cop. This is a sacred site to the Cats, and the girl is their corn goddess. The Cats mine millstones on Mow Cop, and bring food as offerings. The soldiers think they have engineered a truce, but the girl poisons their food and they have hallucinations, killing themselves. Only Macey is spared, as he never touched the girl, who was raped and impregnated by the others. He and the girl leave together, but first he returns to Barthomley where he buries his talisman, the stone axe head, in the burial mound, asking forgiveness for killing so many villagers. The axe head is later found by Thomas Rowley. In the time of the English Civil War, Thomas Rowley lives in Barthomley with his wife Margery. They find a stone axe-head buried in an old mound, and call it a "thunderstone", believing it to have been created by lightning striking the ground. They intend to build it into a chimney to guard against future strikes. The village is besieged by
The story opens in the restored city of Voitan, where a human search & rescue team (really an assassination squad) is examining the remains of the marines who were interred there after the battle against the Kranolta. Temu Jin, a Commo-Tech serving as translator for the team, repeatedly questions the local leaders as to the marines' purpose and fate, who in turn repeatedly state that all the marines died during the battle or shortly afterwards. While Dara, the team's leader is content with their story, Jin remains privately suspicious because of several glaring clues that Dara, in his stupidity, has failed to notice. Between the physical evidence (pointing to people with marine nano-packs), the reticence of the king of Q'Nkok (who allowed only limited questioning and always while under supervision), the inconsistencies in T'Leen Targ's story (that the Kranolta took all the marines' weapons and gear), the Mardukans' atypical body-language of nods, open-mouthed smiles and handshakes (all indicating acculturation to humans) and the fact that the bodies were all stripped of clothing, jewelry and even tattoos (making their identification impossible without a DNA database), Jin becomes convinced that the locals are covering for the marines who are headed almost certainly, to the spaceport. As he's about the finish his scans, Jin notices a bronze earring with the word "BARBARIANS" on it. Deftly snatching it without Dara's noticing, he then passes it on to T'Leen in a handshake, and tells him that he might want to melt it down "so nobody
She becomes obsessed with her uncle, Danny Farrell, who has always been a black sheep of sorts in the family. Danny is believed to have died in an airplane flying over China while working for the CIA. Roger's mother, Brigid, is a powerful widow with a lot of dirty secrets. The family is an example of an Irish Catholic family's ascent into the upper middle class, perhaps even the upper class, after a few generations, reflecting a common theme of sociologist Greeley. However, aside from Danny, there have been other mysterious deaths in this family, and Noelle courageously probes this dark side of her ancestry, leading to the truth about who she really is. Noelle is clearly the most significant character in the book. Greeley has said that she is meant to embody the Church. She is a spunky girl who once takes over a church service with her guitar-playing rendition of the hymn "Lord of the Dance", much to the dismay of her folk group leader, and gives a spontaneous, powerful homily about life being a dance where God chooses the partners. Sometimes, however, God wants to dance alone, with just us.
The novel is narrated by the protagonist Jack Forman, who is an unemployed software programmer who used to work for a company called Media Tronics when he was fired for discovering an internal scandal. As a result, he is forced to take the role of a house husband while his wife Julia serves a high ranking employee at a nanorobotics company called Xymos. Julia claims that she is working on a new piece of revolutionary imaging technology with her company, which takes up most of her time. He starts believing that during her long hours away from home she is having an affair, and becomes watchful of her changes. One night Julia comes home late and shows Jack a video of her demoing the Xymos nanobots. In the video, the nanobots are put into a human test subject, and video from inside the body is broadcast in real time. The next day, Julia is injured in a car accident, and Jack is offered a job by Xymos, because the project manager, Ricky, is having software issues with the nanobots. Jack is taken to the Xymos research facility in the desert. Jack is given a tour of the lab and meets the programming team. He is shown a very complicated machine used to make the nanobots. Ricky refuses to show Jack the source code for the nanobots, and later Ricky claims that building contractors failed to properly install filters in a certain vent in the building. As a result, hazardous elements
The book opens up in 1829 with the desertion of the eight-year old Dinah and her family by Dinah's father, John Kirkham. After enduring many of the horrors of Industrial Revolution England, Dinah's family begins to prosper. Dinah, her mother Anna, and her brother Charles, are converted to Mormonism. But Dinah's elder brother, Robert, as well as her husband, Matthew, do not convert, leading to a permanent schism in the family. The Mormon Kirkhams emigrate to Nauvoo, where the Mormons are building a city. In Nauvoo, Dinah—who had to endure an unthinkable sacrifice to come to America—becomes the inspiration for the other women of Nauvoo. She is regarded by many as a Prophetess, and, despite not having the priesthood, bestows blessings on others. She also finds herself drawn to the prophet of the Latter Day Saint Church, Joseph Smith. He teaches her that her husband in England had proven himself unworthy of her by his rejection of the Gospel and by forcing her to choose between God and husband. Joseph introduces Dinah to the still-covert practice of plural marriage, and they are sealed for eternity as husband and wife. Forced to keep secret her eternal union to Joseph causes strains on her relationships with the other women of the town, particularly, Emma Smith, Joseph's first wife. After Joseph's death during his incarceration at Carthage, Dinah uses her influence to help Brigham Young emerge as the new Prophet of the Church, largely because he alone of the potential prophet candidates is
Set in Swinging London, the novel describes one day in the life of Adam Appleby, who lives in constant fear that his wife might be pregnant again with a fourth child. As Catholics, they are denied any form of contraception and have to play "Vatican roulette" instead. Adam and Barbara have three children: Clare, Dominic, and Edward; their friends ask if they intend working through the whole alphabet. In the course of only one busy day, several chances to make some money present themselves to Adam. For example, he is offered the opportunity to edit a deceased scholar's unpublished manuscripts; however, when he eventually has a look at them, he feels uncomfortable realizing that the man's writings are worthless drivel. Also, at the house in Bayswater where he is supposed to get the papers, Adam has to cope with an assortment of weird characters ranging from butchers to a young virgin intent on seducing him. Lodge's novel makes extensive use of pastiche, incorporating passages where both the motifs and the styles of writing used by various authors are imitated. For instance, there is a Kafkaesque scene where Adam has to renew his reading-room ticket. The final chapter of the novel is a monologue by Adam's wife in the style of Molly Bloom's soliloquy in Ulysses. This use of different styles mirrors James Joyce's Ulysses, a work also about a single day. When Lodge's novel first came out, quite a number of reviewers and critics, not appreciating the literary allusions, found
This series was to build on Campbell’s idea, first presented in The Hero with a Thousand Faces, that myth evolves over time through four stages: *The Way of the Animal Powers -- the myths of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers which focus on shamanism and animal totems. This volume was covered in two parts: Mythologies of the Primitive Hunter-Gathers and Mythologies of the Great Hunt. *The Way of the Seeded Earth -- the myths of Neolithic, agrarian cultures which focus upon a mother goddess and associated fertility rites. This volume was to be covered in five parts, of which three were completed: The Sacrifice, Mythologies of the Primitive Planters: The Northern Americas, and Mythologies of the Primitive Planters: The Middle and Southern Americas. Two additional parts were planned: Mythologies of the Primitive Planters: Africa and South-western Asia and Mythologies of the Primitive Planters: Southern Asia. *The Way of the Celestial Lights -- the myths of Bronze Age city-states with pantheons of gods ruling from the heavens, led by a masculine god-king. *The Way of Man -- religion and philosophy as it developed after the Axial Age (c. 6th century BC), in which the mythic imagery of previous eras was made consciously metaphorical, reinterpreted as referring to psycho-spiritual, not literal-historical, matters. This transition is evidenced in the East by Buddhism, Vedanta, and philosophical Taoism; and in the West by the Mystery Cults, Platonism, Christianity and Gnosticism.
Friedrich Fromhold Martens, born in Pärnu, Estonia on 27 August 1845, was a renowned expert in international law. He attended the University of St. Petersburg where he later became a professor. He was a polyglot, jurist, arbitrator, and a member of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He represented the Russian Government at many international conferences including the Hague Peace Conference in 1899. He was a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1902 and was mistakenly reported by some as the winner. During a train journey from his home town of Pärnu to St. Petersburg he recalls many events of his life. He remembers meeting his wife Kati for the first time at her father's house. He describes the discovery of his "double", Georg Friedrich Martens, a man who lived an almost parallel life to Friedrich eighty-nine years previously. Georg was born in Hamburg, Germany, attended the University of Göttingen and also became a professor of international law. Some of the recollected events, for example the Great Flood of Hamburg in 1770 and a fire in a wooden suburb of Göttingen actually took place during Georg's life and not his own. He describes the arrest of his nephew, Johannes. He remembers his meeting with the Imperial Chancellor, Prince Alexander Mikhailovich Gorchakov, to discuss the publication of a compendium of treaties between Russia and other nations. He formulates his theory of "comparativist psychology". With some embarrassment he relates the story of his candidacy for the Nobel Peace Prize and the
The protagonist of The Third Eye is eighteen-year-old Karen Connors. While in high school, she began dating Tim, a popular classmate. For the first time, Karen begins to feel as though she is finally fitting in. Her mother is pleased that she is dating Tim, as she has always pushed Karen to fit in and be popular. Karen gets a job as a babysitter for the Zenner family, watching Stephanie and her older brother, Bobby. Bobby leaves to go and play with his friends, but doesn’t show up at lunchtime. Karen asks nearby families if they had seen him, and when they all reply they haven’t, she contacts the police. Officer Ronald Wilson arrived to question Karen, and the first thing she notices about him is that he has vivid blue eyes and seems much too young to be a police officer. Wilson does not seem too concerned about the disappearance, saying that Bobby was probably at a friend's house. Karen starts having visions of where Bobby is, seeing he is unconscious and stuck in a box. When Bobby's parents arrive home, Bobby is still missing. The policeman returns to the Zenner home. Karen realizes that the box she saw in her vision is the trunk of a car, and that the car is headed her way. She also realizes that the car she envisions belongs to her boyfriend, Tim. When he arrives to take her home, she confronts Tim, and they find Bobby in the trunk, unconscious, but alive.
The story opens on 7 February 1141, a few days after the Battle of Lincoln. Brother Cadfael is a Benedictine monk at Shrewsbury Abbey, of Welsh origins and formerly a widely travelled soldier and seaman. England is in the grip of civil war, as King Stephen and the Empress Maud are contending for the throne. Shrewsbury and the county of Shropshire are loyal to King Stephen and a contingent from the county has gone to fight for him at Lincoln. Hugh Beringar, Deputy Sheriff for the county, returns with the survivors, bringing news of a disastrous defeat. Stephen has been captured, and the future of England is uncertain. Gilbert Prestcote, Sheriff of Shropshire, has also been taken prisoner by Welshmen allied to Empress Maud under Madog ap Maredudd, Lord of Powys in Mid Wales, and Cadwaladr ap Gruffydd, the brother of Owain Gwynedd, ruler of Gwynedd in North Wales. A few days later, Sister Magdalen, a friend of Cadfael who effectively runs the Benedictine convent at Godric's Ford a few miles from Shrewsbury, reports that some of the Welshmen returning from Lincoln tried to raid the convent but were easily driven off, leaving as a prisoner a young man who had fallen into a stream and nearly drowned. He pretends to speak no English, but Brother Cadfael, sent to treat his wounds, quickly sees through the deception. Chagrined, the prisoner identifies himself as Elis ap Cynan, a distant cousin of Owain Gwynedd. Hugh Beringar dispatches Cadfael into Wales to negotiate
In 1933 Reza Shah signed a deal selling Iranian oil extraction rights to the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, later called British Petroleum (BP). Though Iran was officially neutral at the start of World War II, its monarch was friendly towards the Axis. Following the 1941 Allied Invasion of Iran, Reza Shah was forced to abdicate in favour of his son Mohammad Reza Shah, who upheld the oil agreement with APOC, which by then had been renamed the "Anglo-Iranian Oil Company". When the first democratically elected parliament and prime minister in Iran took power in 1950 they planned to seize the oil assets in Iran that had been developed by the British, violating the still running oil contract with British Petroleum. The British Government followed to court in Belgium's International Court and lost the case against Iran's new government. Great Britain reacted by blockading the Persian Gulf, the Strait of Hormuz, halting Iran's trade and economy. The US was concerned that Iranian prime minister Mohammad Mossadegh was seeking help from local superpower, the Soviet Union, in the case against Great Britain. The Dwight D. Eisenhower administration agreed with the Churchill government to restore the pro-western Shah to power. In the summer of 1953, the CIA and Britain's MI6 arranged a coup in Tehran. The Iranian prime minister was successfully overthrown. Mossadegh spent the rest of his life on his country estate under house arrest, and Iran remained a staunch Cold War ally of the West. After more than 20 years of the
As the tales unfold, they recount a world where humans, having developed superior transportation, have abandoned the cities and moved into the countryside. Hydroponic farming and decentralized power allow small communities to become self-sufficient. In the beginning the driving force for dispersion is the fear of nuclear holocaust, but eventually humans discover they simply prefer the pastoral lifestyle. The tales primarily focus around the Webster family, and their robot servant, Jenkins. The name Webster gradually becomes "webster", a noun meaning a human. Themes familiar to Simak readers recur in these stories, notably the pastoral settings and the faithful dogs. Each successive tale tells of further breakdown of urban society. As mankind abandons the cities, each family becomes increasingly isolated. Bruce Webster surgically provides dogs with a means of speech and better vision. The breakdown of civilization allows wandering mutant geniuses to grow up unrestrained by conventional mores. A mutant called Joe invents a way for ants to stay active year round in Wisconsin, so they don't start over every spring. Eventually the ants form an industrial society in their hill. The amoral Joe, tiring of the game, kicks over the anthill. The ants ignore this setback and build bigger and more industrialized colonies. A later tale tells of a research station on the surface of Jupiter. (This story, first published as Desertion in 1944, was one of the first stories about pantropy.) Simak's version of Jupiter is a cold, windswept, and corrosive hell where only advanced technology allows the station
The fourth collection belongs with the first as perhaps one of the two collections most focused on Morpheus himself. It begins with an Endless family meeting descending almost immediately into an Endless family argument. Desire angers Morpheus by taunting him about his intolerant treatment of a former lover, whose story formed the prologue to the second collection, The Doll's House; Death angers him further by agreeing with Desire, but Morpheus' immense respect for Death leads him eventually to agree with her assessment. Morpheus leaves his realm to travel to Hell, where he imprisoned his former lover Nada, to release her. Having left Lucifer, lord of Hell, very angry with him the last time he ventured there (in the first collection, Preludes and Nocturnes), Morpheus is apprehensive about the task. He sets about it, wanting to do what is right, but prepared for a confrontation which he knows he may lose. In the event, his apprehension is somewhat misplaced. As he arrives, Lucifer is busy closing down Hell. Morpheus follows Lucifer around in a state of some bafflement before Lucifer finally persuades him this is not an elaborate trick, that he indeed intends to leave Hell, and his obligations as its lord, forever. His final act before leaving is to throw out any demon or damned souls still hanging around, lock all the portals to Hell and cut off his wings; he then hands the key to Hell to Morpheus, to do with as he will. This episode sets up the
Keeley conducts an investigation of the archaeological evidence for prehistoric violence, including murder and massacre as well as war. He also looks at nonstate societies of more recent times — where we can name the tribes and peoples — and their propensity for warfare. It has long been known, for example, that many tribes of South America's tropical forest engaged in frequent and horrific warfare, but some scholars have attributed their addiction to violence to baneful Western influences. Keeley says peaceful societies are an exception. About 90-95% of known societies engage in war. Those that did not are almost universally either isolated nomadic groups (for whom flight is an option), groups of defeated refugees, or small enclaves under the protection of a larger modern state. The attrition rate of numerous close-quarter clashes, which characterize warfare in tribal warrior society, produces casualty rates of up to 60%, compared to 1% of the combatants as is typical in modern warfare. Despite the undeniable carnage and effectiveness of modern warfare, the evidence shows that tribal warfare is on average 20 times more deadly than 20th century warfare, whether calculated as a percentage of total deaths due to war or as average deaths per year from war as a percentage of the total population. "Had the same casualty rate been suffered by the population of the twentieth century," writes Nicholas Wade, "its war deaths would have totaled two billion people." In modern tribal societies, death rates from war are four to six times the
The story is narrated in the first person as an autobiographical memoir told by the titular horse named Black Beauty—beginning with his carefree days as a colt on an English farm with his mother, to his difficult life pulling cabs in London, to his happy retirement in the country. Along the way, he meets with many hardships and recounts many tales of cruelty and kindness. Each short chapter recounts an incident in Black Beauty's life containing a lesson or moral typically related to the kindness, sympathy, and understanding treatment of horses, with Sewell's detailed observations and extensive descriptions of horse behaviour lending the novel a good deal of verisimilitude. The book describes conditions among London horse-drawn taxicab drivers, including the financial hardship caused to them by high licence fees and low, legally fixed fares. A page footnote in some editions says that soon after the book was published, the difference between 6-day taxicab licences (not allowed to trade on Sundays) and 7-day taxicab licences (allowed to trade on Sundays) was abolished and the taxicab licence fee was much reduced.
Contemporary narrative: Dave Rudman, a London taxi-driver, has a casual sexual encounter with a young woman named Michelle Brodie. The pair do not meet for another seven months until a heavily pregnant Michelle arrives at Dave's flat. They marry, and Michelle gives birth to a boy, Carl, but the marriage is unsuccessful, and Michelle eventually files for divorce, after which she resumes an earlier relationship with the television producer Cal Devenish. Dave descends into depression and increasingly unstable behaviour, and Michelle forbids him contact with their son, Carl. Dave writes a book that consists partly of an account of cab-driving in London, and partly of a misogynistic rant against the alleged unfairness of divorce and child access legislation. He has a single copy of the book printed on metal plates and buries it in the garden of the house in Hampstead where Michelle lives with Cal and Carl. Dave suffers a breakdown, and comes under the care of the psychiatrist Anthony Bohm. Despite discovering that Carl is actually Cal's son, Dave slowly recovers his sanity and, during a stay in hospital, forms a relationship with Phyllis Vance, the mother of Steve, another patient. Dave regrets the content of his book, and attempts to dig it up from the Hampstead garden, but fails. Dave moves into Phyllis's cottage on the fringes of outer London and, under her guidance, writes a second book that repudiates the content of the first, and recommends a life based on tolerance and freedom. He mails the
Evelyn Cyril "E.C." Gordon (also known as "Easy" and "Flash") has been recently discharged from an unnamed war in Southeast Asia. He is pondering what to do with his future and considers spending a year traveling in France. He is presented with a dilemma: follow up on a possible winning entry in the Irish Sweepstakes or respond to a newspaper ad which asks "Are you a coward?". He settles on the latter discovering it has been placed by Star, a stunningly gorgeous woman he had previously met on Île du Levant. Star informs him that he is the one to embark on a perilous quest to retrieve the Egg of the Phoenix. When she asks what to call him, he wants to suggest Scarface, referring to the scar on his face, but she stops him as he is saying "Oh, Scar..." and repeats this as "Oscar", and thus gives him his new name. Along with Rufo, her assistant, who appears to be a man in his fifties, they tread the "Glory Road" in swashbuckling style, slaying minotaurs, dragons, and other creatures. Shortly before the final quest for the Egg itself, Oscar and Star get married. The team then proceeds to enter the tower in which the Egg has been hidden, navigating a maze of illusions and optical tricks. Oscar scouts ahead and finds himself crossing swords with a fearsome foe who resembles Cyrano de Bergerac. He then defeats the final guardian of the Egg, known only as the "Never-Born", in
Unlike previous Saint stories, which were straightforward realistic crime dramas, The Last Hero saw Simon Templar entering the realm of both science fiction and spy fiction. The novel starts an unspecified length of time after the events of Enter the Saint with an account of Simon Templar, The Saint, foiling an assassination attempt on a visiting prince by tricking the would-be assassin into blowing himself up. This leads to The Saint becoming a cause célèbre among the British people, to the point where the government offers him not only a full pardon for past crimes, but also a job as a sanctioned crime-buster. Templar politely refuses, saying he prefers to remain underground, his identity a secret to all but a select few. (He would revisit this decision, however, in the later story "The Impossible Crime" (featured in the collection Alias the Saint) and again in the novel, She Was a Lady.) Over the next three months, the Saint proceeds to operate so far in the shadows that the general public thinks he has retired or disappeared. During this time, Templar hears from a reporter friend about troubling indications that conditions for a new war in Europe might be brewing (Templar insists that after the events of the First World War there wouldn't be another such war "for hundreds of years"). Later, during an outing in the countryside with fellow adventurer and girlfriend Patricia Holm, Templar stumbles upon a secret British government installation where he and Holm witness the testing of
The work outlines Augustine's sinful youth and his conversion to Christianity. It is widely seen as the first Western autobiography ever written, and was an influential model for Christian writers throughout the following 1000 years of the Middle Ages. It is not a complete autobiography, as it was written in his early 40s, and he lived long afterwards, producing another important work (City of God); it does, nonetheless, provide an unbroken record of his development of thought and is the most complete record of any single person from the 4th and 5th centuries. It is a significant theological work. In the work St. Augustine writes about how much he regrets having led a sinful and immoral life. He discusses his regrets for following the Manichaean religion and believing in astrology. He writes about Nebridius's role in helping to persuade him that astrology was not only incorrect but evil, and St. Ambrose's role in his conversion to Christianity. The first nine books are autobiographical and the last four are commentary. He shows intense sorrow for his sexual sins, and writes on the importance of sexual morality. The books were written as prayers to God, thus the title, based on the Psalms of David; and it begins with "For Thou has made us for thyself and our hearts are restless till they rest in Thee" . The work is thought to be divisible into books which symbolize various aspects of the Trinity and trinitarian belief.
A nuclear technician in India plants a bomb on a pump in a nuclear power station in Jowada but is killed by the blast as hifrh paymasters didn't want to leave any witnesses. (which would later be revealed who). A cloud of nuclear steam slowly travels towards Jowada, and a charity called First Aid quickly reacts to the disaster. Meanwhile Alex Rider is spending New Year's with Sabina Pleasure and her family in Scotland. He goes to a New Year's Eve party hosted by the rich black businessman Desmond McCain, founder of the fictitious charity First Aid. As Alex, Sabina, and her father drive home, a sniper shoots the tire of their car, causing them to lose control and crash into a loch. Alex, Sabina, and her father barely escape from the vehicle. Their escape is helped by an Indian man who is unidentified and unknown to them at the time. Alex is later approached by a journalist named Harry Bulman who wants to publicise Alex's MI6 activities. Alex is forced to cooperate with MI6 on one last mission if they want Bulman to get out of his life. He is tasked with finding more information about a genetically modified foods research facility named Greenfields. He enters the facility while on a school trip and plugs in a USB drive to copy the contents of director Leonard Straik's computer. Straik (who is accompanied by McCain) discovers that the computer has been compromised and orders a massive manhunt to find the
During Prince Pompadore of Pumperdink's eighteenth birthday celebration, his birthday cake explodes, revealing a magic scroll, a magic mirror, and a doorknob. The scroll warns the prince that if the he doesn't wed a "proper princess" within seven days, his entire kingdom will disappear. The prince, along with the kingdom's wise elephant Kabumpo, set off on an adventure to the Emerald City so Pompa can marry Princess Ozma, the only "proper princess" the Elegant Elephant can think of as worthy of his prince. Meanwhile, Ruggedo the Gnome King (Thompson "corrected" Baum's spelling of "Nome") finds Glegg's Box of Mixed Magic while tunnelling under the Emerald City. After he brings a wooden doll, Peg Amy, to life, and makes Wag the rabbit the size of a man, Ruggedo turns himself into a giant. This means that Ozma's palace gets stuck on his head, and in a panic he runs off to Ev with it. After many adventures in the strange lands of Rith Metic, the Illumi Nation, and the Soup Sea, Pompadore and Kabumpo arrive in the Emerald City to find Ozma missing. They set off to find her and eventually meet up with Wag and Peg Amy. The group reaches the edge of the Deadly Desert and is hijacked by the Runaway Country, a piece of land that has feet. It carries them over the desert to Ev. Eventually, Peg Amy is revealed to be a princess, and Pompadore marries her.
Mike Hammer wakes up being questioned by the police in the same hotel room as the body of an old friend from World War II. His friend, Chester Wheeler, has apparently committed suicide with Hammer's own gun after they had been drinking all night. As it is not considered murder, Hammer is not under suspicion but the District Attorney takes the opportunity to revoke his Private Investigator and Gun licences. Considering the evidence, Wheeler had no motive to commit suicide and two bullets are missing from his gun with only one in his friend's body, Hammer does not believe that it was really a suicide and proceeds to investigate. During the investigation he finds a formerly small time criminal and a modelling agency are involved in a large blackmailing scheme that seems to include many rich and powerful people across New York. Parts of the investigation are carried out by Hammer's secretary, Velda, who has her own Private Investigator licence. This novel features the first time she shoots and kills someone.
The reader first meets Rapp while he is doing a covert operation in Iran and he discovers a possible terrorist attack planned for the nations capital to happen in the near future. Meanwhile in Washington, D.C., Anna Reilly is starting her first day as a White House correspondent for NBC. It also so happens to be the day where the terrorist, using the a secret entrance and take over the White House and hold it hostage. The president, who barley escaped the hostage situation remains trapped in the unfinished bomb shelter. With the vice president using this opportunity as commander in chief to glorify his political career being lenient towards the terrorist demands, Rapp must find a way to fight the terrorist from the inside of the White House. It is here where he saves Anna Reilly from being raped by one of the terrorist and their relationship, which will be seen throughout the later books begins. It comes time that several Navy SEAL's who sneak into the White House and eliminate the terrorist, save the hostages and the president. The leader of the terrorist group manages to escape the White House while detonating the strategically placed explosives. He is later found in South America only to be killed by Rapp.
The book comprises a preface, 25 chapters, and an afterword, with a total of around 72,000 words. Arthur Gordon Pym was born on the island of Nantucket, famous for its fishing harbor and whaling. His best friend, Augustus Barnard, is the son of the captain of a whaling ship. One night, the two boys get drunk and decide, on Augustus's whim, to take advantage of the breeze and sail out on Pym's sailboat, the Ariel. But the breeze turns out to be the beginnings of a violent storm. The situation gets critical when Augustus passes out drunk, and the inexperienced Pym must take control of the dinghy. The Ariel is overtaken by the Penguin, a returning whaling ship. Against the captain's wishes, the crew of the "Penguin" turns back to search for and rescue both Augustus and Pym. After they're safely back on land, they decide to keep this episode a secret from their parents. His first ocean adventure does not dissuade Pym from sailing again; rather, his imagination is ignited by the experience. His interest is further fueled by the tales of a sailor's life that Augustus tells him. Pym decides to follow Augustus as a stowaway aboard the Grampus, a whaling vessel commanded by Augustus's father that is bound for the southern seas. Augustus helps Pym by preparing a hideout in the hold for him and smuggling Tiger, Pym's faithful dog, on board. Augustus promises to provide Pym with water and food until the ship is too far
The play is set in the 17th century in Europe during the Thirty Years' War. The Recruiting Officer and Sergeant are introduced, both complaining about the difficulty of recruiting soldiers to the war. A canteen woman named Anna Fierling (Mother Courage) enters pulling a cart that she uses to trade with soldiers and make profits from the war. She has three children, Eilif, Kattrin, and Swiss Cheese. The sergeant negotiates a deal with Mother Courage while Eilif is led off by the recruiting officer. One of her children is now gone. Two years from then, Mother Courage argues with a Protestant General's cook over a capon, or chicken. At the same time, Eilif is congratulated by the General for killing peasants and slaughtering their cattle. Eilif and his mother sing "The Fishwife and the Soldier". Mother Courage scolds her son for taking risks that could have got him killed and slaps him across the face. Three years later, Swiss Cheese works as an army paymaster. The camp prostitute, Yvette Pottier, sings "The Fraternization Song". Mother Courage uses this song to warn Kattrin about involving herself with soldiers. Before the Catholic troops arrive, the Cook and Chaplain bring a message from Eilif. Swiss Cheese hides the regiment's paybox from invading soilders. Mother Courage & co. hurriedly switch their insignia from Protestant to Catholic. Swiss Cheese is captured by the Catholics while attempting to return the paybox to his General. Mother Courage deals her cart to get money to try and barter
The story opens with a diary excerpt from the early 1850s, narrated by a young woman named Abigail Guthrie, who lives with her farmer husband Hank in the middle of Kansas. Hearing about the discovery of gold out west in California, and hoping for a better life, they leave Kansas and migrate to California, ending up in the small mining camp of Trouble. As years go by, Abigail struggles to support Hank, who eventually becomes ill and dies of natural cases portaining to his "gold fever" (desire for gold). Struggling to find a job in the aftermath of her husband's death, she eventually is found and hired by Artemis Monk, one of the most important people in the town due to his job as an assayer (who examines rocks and tells miners what the worthiness of their mining operation is going to look like). However, as Abigail soon finds out, Artemis is also known for his worthy reputation of solving crimes. 150 years later, in 2008, the main story of Mr. Monk in Trouble opens on Halloween, which couldn't be worse for Adrian Monk. He hates trick-or-treaters, and considers it a form of extortion. Nonetheless, he gets a bit of a reprieve when a man named Clarence Lenihan shows up at his door. Monk exposes him as a killer on the fact that he is wearing a confession - blood spatter on his clothes. Captain Stottlemeyer arrives and arrests Lenihan. Two days later, Monk and Natalie Teeger are called to
The principal character is a young Scottish pilot with bush-flying experience in Canada, Donald Ross, who is hired by an Oxford don, Cyril Lockwood, to pilot an air survey mission of Greenland. Lockwood's interest is in the early Viking seafarers and their exploits, and although he appears to have little knowledge of the needs of such a project, he insists on their starting as soon as possible, with his elder brother David, a businessman, providing finance. Ross, as the hired expert, then has to contend with the 'helpful' suggestions from both the financier and Lockwood's young daughter, Alix. This causes early tensions in the preparatory stages. While the preliminary dig is ongoing Ross shoulders much responsibility including keeping the aircraft safe in a tidal zone. Worn out with the expedition's work - all of which has fallen solely on him - and a prolonged lack of sleep induced by worry over the expedition, he enters a coma induced by the sleeping tablets he has been forced to take to keep going, and in it dreams that he and Alix were once Scottish slaves aboard Leif Ericson's vessel on its voyage of discovery to Greenland. A part of this dream includes the leaving behind by the two slaves of a stone, with their names carved on it, at the Viking explorers' landing point in North America. Ross recovers and tells Alix and the don of his dreams. The last remnant of photographic survey is successfully completed, and the three complete their
Set in the early 1980s, Liza Normal goes on numerous theater and commercial auditions, at the behest of her mother Peppy, who costumes the child in a strapless evening gowns, heavy make-up, and false eyelashes. Humiliations repeat for Liza, as she and her family encounter endless degradation, after opening a dinner theater in Marin County, California. Throughout the first half of the novel, Liza is forced to perform in a dilapidated firehouse, which functions as the theater, as well as the family's home, attend school where she is constantly ridiculed and tormented, and at one point, raped. After this, Liza undergoes several phases, the first of which is a gravitation toward the punk rock aesthetic, specifically embracing and cultivating the look of Plasmatics performer, Wendy O. Williams. Liza eventually becomes involved with a drug pusher, and at one point becomes addicted herself during her stint at "Elf House," which Wilson describes as a commune of hippies who have a fetish with elves and speaking in "Quenya, the J.R.R. Tolkien version of High Elf language." It is during this time, that Liza, while working for Centaur Productions—a company that creates and distributes Slash fiction, that she concocts an "alter ego, Venal de Minus, into a phone sex phenomenon and Las Vegas stage act," achieving a new definition of success that is a spin-off of the earlier theater ambitions initially sought by her mother.
The Borrowers Avenged details the events following the escape of the tiny Clock family from the attic of the scheming humans Mr. and Mrs. Platter and their search for a new home. After returning to the Little Fordham model village, the Clocks set out in Spiller's boat for their new home, the rectory of the local church. They make a night journey down the river, barely missing the Platters who are looking for them. When they arrive at the rectory they discover that their relatives Lupy, Hendreary and Timmus are living in the church next door. Arrietty also meets another borrower named Peagreen Overmantel who shows them a place to live under a window seat. The Clocks settle in comfortably and Arrietty is allowed to go outside and do all of the borrowing for the two borrower families. She discovers that her human friend Miss Menzies goes to the church to arrange flowers, but she is forbidden to speak to her. The Platters, having severely damaged the model village in their hunt for the borrowers, decide to use one of Homily's old aprons to help the local "finder" Lady Mullings locate the borrowers. Miss Menzies recognizes the apron and becomes suspicious. Meanwhile, the Platters spot Timmus in the church and break in after hours to catch him, but they accidentally ring the church bells and are caught by the humans in suspicious circumstances.
Hume's approach in the second Enquiry is largely an empirical one. Instead of beginning his moral inquiry with questions of how morality ought to operate, he purports to investigate primarily how we actually do make moral judgments. As Hume puts it: As this is a question of fact, not of abstract science, we can only expect success, by following the experimental method, and deducing general maxims from a comparison of particular instances. (EPM, §1, ¶10) Furthermore, Hume purports to provide a naturalistic account of morality, at least to the extent that it is something that is common among the human species. He writes: The final sentence, it is probable, which pronounces characters and actions amiable or odious, praise-worthy or blameable... depends on some internal sense or feeling, which nature has made universal in the whole species. (EPM, §1, ¶8) But, whether in the end Hume purports to provide a normative ethical theory, rather than a merely descriptive theory of moral psychology, is a contentious issue among Hume scholars. Hume defends his sympathy-based moral sentimentalism by claiming that, contrary to moral rationalism, we can never make moral judgments based on reason alone. Reason deals with facts and draws conclusions from them, but, all else being equal, it could not lead us to choose one option over the other; only our sentiments can do this, according to Hume. Hume writes that: ...morality is determined by sentiment. It defines virtue to be whatever mental action or quality gives to a spectator the pleasing
Bambi is a roe deer fawn born in a thicket to a young doe in late spring one year. Over the course of the summer, his mother teaches him about the various inhabitants of the forest and the ways deer live. When she feels he is old enough, she takes him to the meadow which he learns is both a wonderful but also dangerous place as it leaves the deer exposed and in the open. After some initial fear over his mother's caution, Bambi enjoys the experience. On a subsequent trip, Bambi meets his Aunt Ena, and her twin fawns Faline and Gobo. They quickly become friends and share what they have learned about the forest. While they are playing, they encounter princes, male deer, for the first time. After the stags leave, the fawns learn that those were their fathers, but that the fathers rarely stay with or speak to the females and young. As Bambi grows older, his mother begins to leave him alone. While searching for her one day, Bambi has his first encounter with "He"—the animal's term for humans—which terrifies him. The man raises a firearm and aims at him; Bambi flees at top speed, joined by his mother. After he is scolded by a stag for crying for his mother, Bambi gets used to being alone at times. He later learns the stag is called the old Prince, the oldest and largest stag in the forest who is known for his cunning and aloof nature.
The book is set in 1137. Brother Cadfael is introduced, working in the herb gardens of Shrewsbury Abbey. A Welshman who has been on Crusade before joining the Order of Saint Benedict in middle life, he has far more worldly experience than most of his brother monks. He has two young monks to assist him in his work; John, who is practical and down-to-earth, and Columbanus, who is ambitious and sanctimonious. One morning, Columbanus is taken ill with what some take to be the "falling sickness" (epilepsy) but which Cadfael reckons to be a hysterical fit. Brother Jerome, clerk to the ambitious Prior Robert, prays over Columbanus during the night and announces the next day that a young woman appeared to him and told him to take Columbanus to St Winefride's Well in North Wales. When they return, Columbanus is recovered. He in turn says that Saint Winefride appeared to him and stated that her grave at Gwytherin in North Wales had long been neglected, and she desired to be interred somewhere more accessible to pilgrims. Neither Cadfael nor John believe the tales. Prior Robert is known to have been searching for some time for a suitable saint's relics to grace Shrewsbury Abbey. Robert, the lazy Sub-Prior Richard, Jerome and Columbanus prepare to journey to Wales to retrieve Winefride's remains. Cadfael induces Abbot Heribert to send him with them, as a fluent Welsh-speaker will be required, and John, to do the menial work. The Bishop of Bangor and Owain Gwynedd,
Carla is engaged to be married but she is afraid that the fact that her mother killed her father will poison her husband's love for her, as he may fear that she has inherited a murderous tendency. Carla also remembers her mother would never lie to her to hide an unpleasant truth and her mother had told her she was innocent through a letter. That is enough for Carla but she wants Poirot to convince her fiance. Carla's father, painter Amyas Crale, was poisoned with coniine, which had been extracted from poison hemlock by Meredith Blake but subsequently apparently stolen from him by Carla's mother, Caroline Crale. Caroline confessed to stealing the poison, claiming she had intended to use it to commit suicide. The poison ended up, however, in a glass from which Amyas had drunk cold beer, after complaining that 'everything tastes foul today.' Both the glass and the bottle of cold beer had been brought to him by Caroline. Her motive was clear: Amyas's young model and latest mistress, Elsa Greer, claimed he was planning to divorce Caroline and marry her instead. This was a new development; though Amyas had frequently had mistresses and affairs, he had never before shown any sign of wanting to leave Caroline. Poirot labels the five alternative suspects “the five little pigs”: they comprise Phillip Blake ("went to the market"); Philip's brother, Meredith Blake ("stayed at home"); Elsa Greer (now Lady Dittisham, "had roast beef"); Cecilia Williams, the governess ("had none"); and Angela
The play concerns a team of men, Don, Teach, Bob, and Fletcher (who does not appear in the play, but is referred to), who are conspiring to steal a coin collection from a wealthy man. Don, who owns a junk shop, sold a nickel to a man for much less than what it was worth. Out of revenge, he and his young gofer, Bob, plan to steal the man's coin collection after suspecting that he went away for the weekend. Teach, an experienced and misanthropic friend of Don's, persuades Don to release Bob from the job because of what Teach feels is inexperience and potential disloyalty, using himself and Fletcher in Bob's place. Right before the caper is going to be carried out later that night, Bob appears at the store and attempts to sell Don a rare nickel, similar to the one Don sold. When asked where he got the nickel, Bob is evasive. He explains Fletcher's absence by saying he was mugged and is now in a hospital, but when Don calls the hospital, Fletcher has not been admitted. Bob's excuse is that he didn't actually know which hospital Fletcher went to, but by this time Teach is sure that Bob is trying to trick them and in anger strikes him on the head with a metal object from the store. Shortly thereafter a call comes in from another friend of theirs corroborating the Fletcher story and naming the correct hospital, which Don calls and confirms. Don admonishes
War with the neighboring country of Scanra is declared at last, and Kel finds herself in charge of a refugee camp. Her district commander, Lord Wyldon, has chosen not to place her in control of a border post or a portion of the army like the other knights, so she's certain that he wishes to keep her—who, as a woman, he views as inferior in combat to males—out of fighting. However, it is revealed that she was chosen for her post because she is the only knight Wyldon knows who wouldn't discriminate against those not of noble blood. Kel soon comes to realize that these refugees, torn from their homes, robbed of their wealth and self-respect, are her responsibility. She must feed them, house them, and keep them safe from harm, on a piece of ground that is far too close to the Scanran border. She is able to be a hero, even outside of the battlefield. In her work at the camp Kel names Haven, she receives help in the shape of her old friends Neal and Merric, the horses Peachblossom and Hoshi, the dog Jump, and her personal sparrow flock, as well as from mixed a myriad group of others: the Wildmage Daine; Daine's lover, the great mage Numair Salmalin; Neal's own father, Duke Baird of Queenscove; Kel's former knight-master Raoul of Goldenlake and Malorie's Peak; men of the King's Own (including Kel's friend and Neal's cousin Sergeant Domitan of Masbolle); convict soldiers who have been given the
James is joined on a new mission by Dave Moss and his sister Lauren Adams. The mission focuses on Jane Oxford, an international arms dealer who has been untraceable for as long as she has been on the CIA's most wanted list. But then they come across a breakthrough: Jane's 14-year-old son Curtis Oxford has been jailed for murdering three innocent people. He is being held at Arizona Maximum Security Prison. The Americans ask a favour from CHERUB, an organisation with one essential advantage: even experienced criminals do not expect kids to be spying on them. The plan is for James and Dave to be sent into the prison undercover, then to bust Curtis out, hoping that Curtis will lead them to his mother. However, after a prison fight Dave is injured and taken to hospital, leaving James alone behind bars. Soon James and Curtis escape with the help of Lauren. Later, they meet up with Jane Oxford. Jane wants James dead, so she sends her men to execute him but he beats them. Soon, the FBI arrive to arrest Jane. Lauren gets her navy shirt for her performance.
The Romans have once again been humiliated by the Gauls. Felonius Caucus, right hand man of Centurion Nebulus Nimbus, head of the fortified camp of Totorum, suggests a Big Fight. This is a Gallic tradition where two Gallic chiefs fight and the winner becomes leader of both tribes. To fight Vitalstatistix, chief of Asterix’s tribe, the Romans enlist a Gallo-Roman Chief, Cassius Ceramix of Linoleum. Vitalstatistix would surely win with Getafix’ magic potion of invincibility, but the Romans plan to dispose of the druid long beforehand. In an effort to rescue him, Obelix accidentally puts Getafix out of action with a menhir, the impact of which causes amnesia and insanity. Cassius Ceramix' challenge therefore comes at the worst possible moment, and Asterix and Vitalstatistix desperately attempt to restore Getafix’s mind by consulting Psychoanalytix (original French name is Amnesix), a druid who specializes in mental disorders. But during an explanation of the cause of the problem, Obelix decides to physically demonstrate with a menhir, leaving Psychoanalytix in the same state. As the two crazed druids concoct a number of skin-coloring magic potions, Asterix tries to bring Vitalstatistix into good physical shape for the upcoming fight. Meanwhile the Romans plan to arrest Cassius after the Fight to stop him becoming too powerful. As the fight begins, Getafix accidentally makes a potion which restores his mind, despite Obelix throwing another menhir at him to try curing him, and quickly proceeds to brew a supply of magic potion. Cassius Ceramix looks sure to win,
Along with the Cirque Du Freak, Darren Shan returns to his home town, the place where it all began. He was still having nightmares about the Lord of the shadows. While the Cirque Du Freak rests at an old abandoned football stadium, Darren walks through his old home. After spotting his sister, Annie Leopard, living a happy life with her son at their old house, Darren decides not to disturb them. One night before the freak show starts a boy shows up hoping to get a ticket to attend the freak show. The boy, Darius, asks many questions and acts strangely, leaving Harkat and Darren curious. The freak show starts, Darren and Harkat wait for Darius but he doesn't attend, instead, he sees his old friend Tommy Jones. Jekkus Flangs, a performer of Cirque Du Freak, introduces him to Tommy Jones who is now a famous footballer. Tommy is shocked that Darren was alive after he was proclaimed dead eighteen years ago when he became a vampire assistant, Darren tells him that he had a rare disease that prevented him from aging normally and they had to fake his death to leave home and travel with a physician so he could be helped. Tommy gives Darren a ticket to the semi final. After the soccer match ends, Darren witnesses RV and Morgan James kill Tommy. Thus, he goes on a hunt for them. He finds them in an old dark-end ally and edges out to the road where Gannen Harst
The book is about a young lad, Nils Holgersson, whose "chief delight was to eat and sleep, and after that he liked best to make mischief". He takes great delight in hurting the animals in his family farm. Nils captures a tomte in a net while his family is at church and have left him home to memorize chapters from the Bible. The tomte proposes to Nils that if Nils frees him, the tomte will give him a huge gold coin. Nils rejects the offer and the tomte turns Nils into a tomte, which leaves him shrunken and able to talk with animals, who are thrilled to see the boy reduced to their size and are angry and hungry for revenge. While this is happening, wild geese are flying over the farm on one of their migrations, and a white farm goose attempts to join the wild ones. In an attempt to salvage something before his family returns, Nils holds on to the bird's neck as it successfully takes off and joins the wild birds. The wild geese, who are not pleased at all to be joined by a boy and a domestic goose, eventually take him on an adventurous trip across all the historical provinces of Sweden observing in passing their natural characteristics and economic resources. At the same time the characters and situations he encounters make him a man: the domestic goose needs to prove his ability to fly like the experienced wild geese, and Nils needs to
Alan Duncan is a lawyer, recently called to the Bar in England, returning home to his wealthy parents' prosperous sheep ranch in Australia. He studied as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University and fought as a pilot in World War II before being injured in action and losing both feet in an air crash. His arrival home is marred by the apparent suicide of his parents' housekeeper, a young Englishwoman called Jessie Proctor. Alan realises that this troubled woman must have left her personal papers hidden somewhere in the event that her suicide attempt was not successful. He searches the house and happens upon a small suitcase of letters, diaries and the woman's passport. He is appalled to learn that the woman was, in fact, Janet Prentice - a former Royal Navy Wren and the former girlfriend of his dead brother Bill, and someone for whom Alan had spent considerable time searching immediately after the war. Janet had a "lovely war" in Southern England, until the events around D day, when she lost Bill, her father and her dog in quick succession. Her mother also dies shortly after the war. She believes herself responsible for the deaths of what may have been allies escaping in a German aeroplane. Reading through Janet's diaries, Alan learns that she had come to Australia partly because of him but partly because of a terrible event during the war for which she believed she had to atone. Her revelations help Alan think of ways to
As the novel opens, Blacky is worried about the imminent grand final and the responsibility he carries as the team’s new first ruck. His opponent will be the unstoppable ‘Thumper’. To protect himself, Blacky has devised the ‘Thumper tackle’ which is the ultimate defence of the coward: it looks like he is trying to tackle his opponent but is really an elaborate dodge. During the teams after-party however, the coaches son is given the honour of the Best On Ground award, which he believes should have been bestowed upon Dumby Red, the star player of the team. Soon after the news reports that Dumby and his two brothers have been shot dead while robbing a Public Bar, resulting in the breakdown of Blacky's emotional life. Blacky spends much of that winter dodging responsibility in a similar manner. By the end of the following summer, however, he understands the importance of making a stand and is able to do so. His brothers and sisters join him in his stand and the novel ends with Blacky at peace with himself, happy in his relationship with his siblings, and confident that he will be able to deal with the problems that will come with the morning.
:"There are only two races that matter: the Living and the Undead. :And with every year that passes, the numbers of Undead grow. It is inevitable." So says 16-year-old Lucy Szabo. She has a theory: hundreds of years ago, before the discovery of insulin, slowly dying diabetics were the original vampires. Lucy, a diabetic herself, counts herself among the modern Undead. As Sweetblood, Lucy frequents the Transylvania room, an internet chatroom where so-called vampires gather. But Draco, one of the other visitors to Transylvania, claims to be a real vampire--and Lucy's not entirely sure he's kidding. As Lucy becomes more involved with the vampire subculture, the rest of her life comes to seem unimportant. Her grades plummet, her relationship with her parents deteriorates, and her ability to regulate her blood sugar worsens dramatically. Then she meets Draco, face to face, and he invites her into his strange world. Lucy realizes that she needs to make some difficult choices--if it isn't already too late.
Margaret Hale, 19, happily returns home from London to the idyllic southern village of Helstone after her cousin Edith marries Captain Lennox. She lived nearly 10 years in the city with Edith and wealthy Aunt Shaw to learn to be an accomplished young lady. Margaret, herself, has refused a marriage offer from the captain's brother, Henry, a rising barrister. But her life is turned upside down when her father, the pastor, leaves the Church of England and the rectory of Helstone as a matter of conscience—his intellectual honesty having made him a dissenter. On the suggestion of his old friend from Oxford, Mr. Bell, he settles with his wife and daughter in Milton-Northern, where Mr. Bell was born and owns property. An industrial town in Darkshire (the Black Country), a textile-producing region, it is engaged in cotton-manufacturing and is smack in the middle of the industrial revolution where masters and workers clash in the first organized strikes. Margaret finds the bustling, smoky town of Milton harsh and strange and she is upset by the poverty all around. Mr. Hale, in reduced financial circumstances, works as a tutor and counts as his pupil the rich and influential manufacturer, Mr. John Thornton, master of Marlborough Mills. From the outset, Margaret and Thornton are at odds with each other: She sees him as coarse and unfeeling; he sees her as haughty. But he is attracted to her beauty and self-assurance and she begins to admire how he has lifted himself from poverty. During
The novella centres on the antagonisms that exist between two brothers. It recounts the story of Robert, a priest whose conduct appears so exemplary that he is called "L'Abbé" ("the abbot"), and is also involved in the clandestine activities of the French Resistance. Against his perspective of ecclesiastical morality, one encounters his twin brother Charles, who is a "libertine." It is the Second World War, which serves as a backdrop for the paradox of interpersonal betrayal, anti-clericalism and its disconnection from public virtue that characterises this work. Charles has a sexual relationship with Eponine, a female libertine. However, Eponine is also attracted to Robert. Worse, Robert is secretly attracted to Eponine, which precipitates an atmosphere of psychological and sexual tension within this triangle. The story turns out badly for all involved, as the resolution of this unstable triangle is not a healthy outcome. The story is told mostly from Charles's point of view. Robert undergoes a nervous breakdown, as he faints at a church service that he officiates at, with Eponine in the congregation. Robert becomes an alcoholic, and starts to harass Eponine at home late at night, leaving behind traces that suggest growing psychological instability. He loses his moral compass, and eventually becomes insane, leaving his village for a hotel on its outskirts, and spends a fortnight with two prostitutes, Rosie and Raymonde, before the Gestapo apprehend Robert for his activities with the French Resistance. While he has abandoned his clerical vows, however, Robert will not betray his resistance
The book includes contributions from twenty-two academics in the field of philosophy. Topics include issues of sexuality involved in depicting Saddam Hussein and Satan as gay lovers, existentialism as applied to the death of Kenny, and a debate about whether feminists can enjoy the show due to some of its misogynistic characters. The contributors to the work utilize philosophical concepts derived from Plato, Aristotle, Freud and Sartre and place them in a South Park context. The book's contributors all attempted to analyze the philosophical and cultural aspects of South Park in the work. One of the authors, David Koepsell, wrote about the controversial episode dealing with Scientology, entitled: "Trapped in the Closet". Koepsell cited the fact that the series won a Peabody Award due to its willingness to criticize intolerance in April 2006 as a "special concern for criticizing and countering intolerance", and the notion that "the Church of Scientology suffers from the widely held perceptions that it seeks to silence former members and others who criticize its beliefs and practices" as the motivation behind the episode. Koepsell analyzed Comedy Central's reaction to the episode itself, in a section of his book entitled "2005-2006: Comedy Central Caves". He mentions South Park's usage of the onscreen caption "this is what Scientologists actually believe." in the episode, noting that the same device was used in the episode "All About the Mormons?." In referencing this similar use of the onscreen caption device, Koepsell seemed to point to an inconsistency in the behavior of
This one-act play concerns two characters, Peter and Jerry. Peter is a middle-class publishing executive with a wife, two daughters, two cats and two parakeets. Jerry is an isolated and disheartened man. These men meet on a park bench in New York City's Central Park. Jerry is desperate to have a meaningful conversation with another human being. He intrudes on Peter’s peaceful state by interrogating him and forcing him to listen to stories like "THE STORY OF JERRY AND THE DOG", and the reason behind his visit to the zoo. The action is linear, unfolding in front of the audience in “real time”. The elements of ironic humor and unrelenting dramatic suspense are brought to a climax when Jerry brings his victim down to his own savage level. The catalyst for the shocking ending transpires when Peter announces, "I really must be going home;..." At the same time Jerry begins pushing Peter off the bench. Peter decides to fight for his territory on the bench and becomes angry. Unexpectedly, Jerry pulls a knife on Peter, and then drops it as initiative for Peter to grab. When Peter holds the knife defensively, Jerry charges him and impales himself on the knife. Bleeding on the park bench, Jerry finishes his zoo story by bringing it into the immediate present, "Could I have planned all this. No... no, I couldn't have. But I think I did." Horrified, Peter runs away from Jerry whose dying words, "Oh...my...God", are a combination of scornful mimicry and
Fern Drudger has the ability to shake things out of books, but lately, only Diet Lime Fizzy Drinks seem to pop out of them. The Fizzy Drinks always have messages from a mysterious group called the Nobodies. As it turns out to be, Nobodies are people or animals that are shaken out of books and haven't been returned yet. The Nobodies seem to have a terrible enemy, and they say that Fern is the only one who can save them. Fern, now reunited with her real parents, is sent off to Camp Happy Sunshine Good Times, a camp for young Anybodies. Anybodies are people who can transform themselves or others into different objects through hypnotism. At the camp, Fern meets Mary Stern, the counselor for girls. However, it turns out that the counselors and director of the camp seem to have deadly secrets. Camp Happy Sunshine Good Times has strict rules, and Fern easily breaks one of them. And when she receives her punishment, Fern discovers that she is destined to help the Nobodies, who are trapped by the evil Mole (animal)|Mole]], or BORT. BORT is a giant mole who had trapped a family of Nobodies in a Diet Lime Fizzy Drinks factory in a basement at the Avenue of Americas. The Mole can only be shrunk down to the size of normal mole when it touches water. Fern must somehow get BORT to touch water and bring peace to the second earth.
The novel revolves around the troubles that Annabelle Doll and Tiffany Funcraft get into when trying to hide from their owner, Kate Palmer. They hide in her backpack and get taken to school. There, they explore and eventually get into a backpack they think is Kate's but it is really the backpack of a different child, named BJ. The dolls are taken to BJ's house where they meet Waterfall, Melody, Yvonne, Penny, and Beth, the toys of BJ's sister, Callie. Annabelle and Tiffany are introduced to the meanest doll in the world, Princess Mimi (called by the toys Mean Mimi). Mean Mimi tries to boss them around too, but Annabelle and Tiffany escape back into BJ's backpack where, at school, they can get back into Kate's backpack and then home to their worried families. Little do they know that Mean Mimi has followed them. At the Palmers' house, Mimi mimics crying and tricks the Dolls and the Funcrafts into letting her stay with them. What they do not know is that Mimi is trying to torture them, too. She tries to wake up Kate so she will know about the mess she made, and think the dolls did it. Nora, Kate's little sister, sees Mean Mimi jump off Kate's bookshelf in a stunt to expose the life of dolls, and Mimi goes into Permanent Doll State. In which dolls cannot come to life ever again because they put the secret life of dolls at risk of being exposed. So at
In the border shantytown of Ysleta, Texas, Mexican immigrants Pilar and Cuauhtemoc Martinez strive to teach their four children to forsake the drugs and gangs of their neighborhood. The family’s hardscrabble origins unite them to survive, but soon the children adapt to their new home, reject their traditional religion and culture, and struggle to remain together as a family. The novel spans four decades. As a young adult, daughter Julieta travels to Central America, becomes disenchanted with Catholicism, and converts to Islam. Youngest son Ismael, always the bookworm, is accepted to Harvard but feels out of place in the Northeast, where he meets and marries a Jewish woman. The other boys--Marcos and Francisco--toil in their father’s old apartment buildings, serving as cheap labor to fuel the family’s rise to the middle class. Over time, Francisco isolates himself in El Paso. Marcos eventually leaves to become a teacher, but then returns, struggling with a deep bitterness about his work and marriage. Through it all, Pilar clings to the idea of her family and tries to hold it together as her husband’s health begins to fail. This backdrop is shaken to its core by the historic events of 2001 in New York City, which send shockwaves through this newly American family. Bitter conflicts erupt between siblings, and the physical and cultural spaces between them threaten to tear them apart. Will their shared history and once-shared dreams be enough to hold together a family from Ysleta, this wicked patch of dust?
Jennifer, who is still mourning the death of her husband, is rushed to her grandmother "Sam"'s side when she goes into a coma, where Jennifer makes the shocking discovery of a packet of letters addressed to her from Sam. As Jennifer reads the letters, she follows the sad story of Sam, who married young to a Stanford man, only to find true love soon after with a man nicknamed "Doc". Jennifer is also beginning to find love with a friend from her childhood, Brendan, whom she later finds out is fighting for his life with a brain tumor that continues to grow. As the summer progresses Sam comes out of her coma and Brendan leaves Jennifer to have a dangerous and possibly life-ending surgery to remove the tumor. Jennifer tracks him down and is there for him when he has and lives through the surgery. Brendan gains his health back and "Doc" is revealed to be the family friend Reverend John. At the end of the book Sam dies, and at her service Jennifer announces that she is pregnant with Brendan's child, who they, no matter what sex, plan to name Sam. It is later revealed that the child is a daughter.
This adventure, and Vecna's multiverse-shattering plan contained within it, have been used by some D&D fans as an in-game explanation of the differences between the 2nd and 3rd editions of Dungeons & Dragons. The closing paragraph of the module reads as follows: :"Even with Vecna's removal, his time in the crux effected change in superspace. Though the Lady of Pain attempts to heal the damage, the turmoil spawned by Vecna's time in Sigil cannot be entirely erased. Some Outer Planes drift off and are forever lost, others collide and merge, while at least one Inner Plane runs "aground" on a distant world of the Prime. Moreover, the very nature of the Prime Material Plane itself is altered. Half-worlds like those attached to Tovag Baragu multiply a millionfold, taking on parallel realism in what was before a unified Prime Material Plane. The concept of alternate dimensions rears its metaphorical head, but doesn't yet solidify, and perhaps it never will. New realms, both near and far, are revealed and realms never previously imagined make themselves known. Entities long thought lost emerge once more, while other creatures, both great and small, are inexplicably eradicated. Some common spells begin to work differently. The changes do not occur immediately, but instead are revealed during the subsequent months. However, one thing remains clear: Nothing will ever be the same again."
The story concerns a small town Michigan cafe owner, Tom McKenna, who becomes a local hero after defending his store from an attempted robbery. When his story receives national attention, several members of the New York City Mafia arrive in town, believing him to be someone named Joey, who crossed them 20 years earlier. Tom protests his innocence to everyone, but eventually his façade is dropped and he is forced to confess his history of violence to his wife and son and eventually the police. Namely, he and his friend performed a well planned and spectacular assassination and robbery of mobsters in their youth in retaliation for the murder of a relative. Unfortunately, Tom's friend foolishly decided to flaunt his take, which allowed the mob to identify him as one of the assailants and abduct him for revenge. Meanwhile, Tom barely escaped the same fate and fled the city with the intent of starting over with a new identity. Fortunately for McKenna and his family, their lawyer arrives and learns that the police failed to Mirandize him, which makes his confession inadmissible in court. However, as the McKenna family is transported to the father's original city to deal with related legal matters, the mobsters learn of McKenna's detention and plan their revenge with a horrific surprise.
Pulp is a pulp fiction novel which acts also as a meta-pulp. Pulp comments on the obsessions of the pulp fiction genre, making fun of itself as stereotypical of the genre in the grimiest form. Bukowski dedicates the story to "bad writing", as Bukowski did not plan his mystery novel well and frequently wrote Nicky Belane into holes from which he could not escape. Bukowski wrote some of his most violent, cynical, sarcastic, and shocking work during the final months of his life. Many critics have agreed this novel exemplifies Bukowski showing an acceptance of his own pending mortality. A convoluted detective story about a hard-boiled private eye who solves his cases by waiting them out, Pulp evokes Raymond Chandler, an author who lived in Los Angeles and set stories there, as did Bukowski. The novel also bears similarity to some works by Dashiell Hammett; and the name of character Nicky Belane rhymes suggestively with the name of author Mickey Spillane as well as Casablanca's main character Rick Blaine.
Mr. March, an abolitionist and chaplain, is driven by his conscience to leave his home and family in Concord, Massachusetts, in order to participate in the war. During this time, March writes letters to his family, but withholds the true extent of the brutality and injustices he witnesses on and off the battlefields. He suffers from a prolonged illness stemming from poor conditions on a cotton farm in Virginia. While in hospital he has an unexpected meeting with Grace, an intelligent and literate black nurse whom he first met as a young man staying in a large house where she was a slave. The recovering March, despite his guilt and grief over his survival when others have perished, returns home to his wife and Little Women, but has been scarred by the events he has gone through. The novel accurately reflects Bronson Alcott's principles, notably his belief that boys and girls of all races had a right to education, and his wish to follow a vegetarian diet. It presents the young Mrs March as a fiery character with strong verbal and physical expressions of anger.
A witch, Jenny Waynest, and lord, John Aversin, who live in the Northlands are approached by a young southern noble, Gareth, who requests they slay a dragon in the capital city of Bel to the south. The pair agree on the condition the king send troops to the north to fend off bandits. On arriving, it is revealed that Gareth is not a mere noble, but the prince of the realm seeking aid against the wishes of his father. The dragon is revealed as Morkeleb the Black, an ancient and powerful dragon, inhabiting the caverns of the gnomes. In addition, the sorceress Zyerne is revealed to hold the king in her power, dominating him with the goal of capturing the power of the Stone in the heart of the gnomish Deep. John is persuaded to kill Morkeleb, with Jenny's assistance, but is himself wounded and Jenny is forced to save the dragon's life in exchange for that of John's. In saving Morkeleb's life, Jenny's weak powers are much augmented, allowing her to confront Zyerne but also tempting her to transform into a dragon and abandon the concerns of humanity. Zyrene enters the Deep, attempting to claim its magic, but is defeated when the Stone is destroyed by John, Jenny and Morkeleb. Jenny accepts Morkeleb's offer to transform into a dragon, but later returns to the North, unable to live without her humanity.
Following up the bestseller The Millionaire Next Door, The Millionaire Mind analyzes the common environmental and lifestyle factors that preceded and resulted in this researched segment's ability to accumulate wealth. The book raises the following questions: What success factors made them wealthy in one generation? What part did luck and school play? How do they find the courage to take financial risks? How did they find their ideal vocations? What are their spouses like and how did they choose them? How do they run their households? How do they buy and sell their homes? What are their favorite leisure activities? Dr. Stanley's research on how the average American millionaire attained financial success are based on in-depth surveys and interviews with more than 1,300 millionaires. Personal details from this research are shared in the book include memories from their school days, personal thoughts on being "the smart kid in the dumb row," making difficult financial decisions, selecting a vocation and spending habits.
Kazuko Yoshiyama, a third-year middle school student, is cleaning the school science lab with her classmates, Kazuo Fukamachi and Gorō Asakura, when she smells a lavender-like scent and faints. After three days, strange events transpire around Kazuko, including the burning of Gorō's house after an earthquake. The next morning, at the exact moment of a car accident, Kazuko is transported 24 hours into the past. She relives the day and relates her strange experience to Kazuo and Gorō. They don't believe her at first, but they are convinced when she accurately predicts the earthquake and ensuing fire. Fukushima, their science teacher, explains Kazuko's new ability as "teleportation" and "time-leap". To solve the riddle of her power she must leap back four days. Finally, Kazuko's determination enables her to make the leap. Back in the science room she meets a mysterious man who has assumed her friend Kazuo's identity. He is really "Ken Sogoru", a time-traveler from AD 2660. His intersection with the girl's life is the accidental effect of a "time-leaping" drug. Ken remains for a month and Kazuko falls in love with him. When he leaves, he erases all memories of himself from everyone he has met, including Kazuko. As the book ends Kazuko has the faint memory of somebody promising to meet her again every time she smells lavender.
In the book Ferriss uses the acronym DEAL for the four main chapters. It stands for: Definition, Elimination, Automation, and Liberation. Definition means to figure out what a person wants, get over fears, see past society's "expectations," and figure out what it will really cost to get where a person wants to go. Elimination is about time management, or rather about not managing time. This is achieved by applying the 'Pareto principle' or '80-20 Rule' (80% of your benefits come from 20% of your efforts) to focus only on those tasks that contribute the majority of benefit, and using Parkinson's law (work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion) to limit the amount of actual time spent working. There's a difference, Ferriss says, between efficiency and effectiveness. The book's emphasis is on effectiveness. Automation is about building a sustainable, automatic source of income. This includes techniques such as drop-shipping, automation, Google AdWords and AdSense, and outsourcing. Liberation is dedicated to the successful automation of one's lifestyle and the liberation from a geographical location and job. Incidentally, Ferriss notes that if somebody has a regular job, the order of steps will be DELA, not DEAL. The book asserts that technology such as email, instant messaging, and Internet-enabled PDAs complicate life rather than simplify it. "Most fundamentally, Mr. Ferriss turned ruthless against e-mail. " It advocates hiring virtual assistants from developing countries such as India and Philippines to free up personal time.
The main figure, Clerfayt, is an automobile racer who goes to a Swiss hospital to visit a fellow racer, Holman. There he meets the young Belgian woman Lillian suffering from tuberculosis. She is in its terminal stage with no chance of a cure, and she wants to enjoy her last months rather than waiting for her death. Therefore, after a few days in Switzerland she decides to leave the Bela Vista sanatorium with Clerfayt. Together they travel over Europe, while Lillian enjoyed things she did not know before. Eventually they fall in love and Clerfayt starts to hope for a future with her. However, when he expresses his wish to settle down and wants to get her visited by a doctor, she starts feeling trapped and refuses the idea. Although she loves him, she decides to leave him before they start an actual life together. In one race Clerfayt is seriously injured and dies in the hospital. Lillian, devastated, returns to Switzerland. On her way there she encounters Holman, now healed, who has been offered the former job of Clerfayt. Six weeks later, Lillian dies. It is described as a peaceful moment, as if even the landscape had stopped breathing.
A rigid man of fifty leads a solitary, apparently respectable life, as clerk and bookkeeper for a small business and part-time rent collector for his landlord. He has rented a flat in the building for twenty years because deep in its cellar, unbeknownst to anyone else, is a mannequin that he periodically "strangles" in order to satisfy his homicidal urges. The figure's location in the cellar, the darkness, the furtiveness, all are essential to the solitary man's satisfaction. The tenuous mental equilibrium he has been able to maintain is threatened when a young man, healthy in mind and body, a doctoral candidate in psychology, becomes a roomer in the house. Danger the older man senses from the moment the new tenant appears is horribly realized for him when the young man finds the mannequin and uses it as the figure in the bonfire at the Guy Fawkes Night celebration he has organized for the local children. The respectable fifty-year-old now must go back to the streets to find flesh more yielding than a mannequin's...
Set in 1968 New York in an alternate universe to the Dryco universe of the previous five iterations of the series, Going, Going, Gone nevertheless disposes of several of the series' characters in its closing chapters. Its protagonist is Walter Bullitt, an egocentric expert in psychoactive substances who freelances for various branches of the United States government spy apparatus. Though he passes for white, Bullitt is in fact of African-American descent in a world where almost all full-blooded members of that race died sometime in the early twentieth century in an apparently engineered plague and all black music is banned. Walter becomes subject to increasingly strange experiences, hearing voices and seeing ghosts from a parallel New York which is blending into his one. Walter is taken to this alternative New York which has been flooded and moved north, populated by black people and an analogue of television absent from his world. The novel ends with the two epistemic worlds converging into a New York which is, in the words of critic Paul Dukes a "morally better place than either of the two which composed it".
Lieutenant Bret Taylor married his wife after knowing her only over a single overnight drinking binge while on shore leave during the war. His ship is bombed out of the water and he returns home to find his wife freshly murdered in the home he bought but had never seen. The shock of the two events sends him into a mental lapse, and he's in an asylum. The woman who loves him, a successful screenwriter, calls in a specialist who jogs his memory—and his sense of duty. Taylor hits the streets of Los Angeles, digging through his wife's lies and lovers in an attempt to avenge her murder. The book is a psychological thriller, with the main action being the unraveling of the story within Taylor's mind. The reader is denied information that other major characters obviously have throughout the whole novel, and is meanwhile treated to long passages of theories from the main character. The limited number of characters keeps the possible solutions to a minimum and the book is perhaps more straightforward than what makes a good mystery. Alfred A. Knopf, Jr., who functioned as an editing publisher, asked for revisions in what he considered a slow-paced novel. Macdonald cut '10,000 good words' and concentrated the action into four days. The 1985 movie Deadly Companion (or Double Negative) was based on this novel.
The wild young Viscount Sheringham is fast running through his considerable income through gambling and other extravagant pursuits; and he cannot as yet touch the principal, unless he marries. As the lady with whom he currently fancies himself in love, the beautiful Isabella Milborne, is also an heiress, he proposes. Isabella rejects him with contumely, citing his dissipated lifestyle. A lively quarrel then follows with his obnoxious widowed mother and her brother, who wish to retain control of his father's fortune themselves. The Viscount storms off in a fit of pique, vowing to marry the first female he meets. This turns out to be the pretty but orphaned and shy Hero Wantage, who has secretly loved him since they were children, and who now lives with one of his neighbours in the position of Cinderella, complete with Ugly Sisters. The rest of the novel, chronicling the Viscount's gradual transition to maturity and the realisation that the one he really loves is Hero (the "loving and giving" child of the title), is told with Miss Heyer's characteristic wit, and features some of her most memorable dialogue, plot twists and characters (such as the fiery but lovelorn George Wrotham, whose hobby is fighting duels).
Calder's friend Tommy Segovia, who moved away a year before, has moved back to Hyde Park, Chicago. He is immediately jealous of Calder and Petra as they received the "glory" of saving a Vermeer painting in the previous book (Chasing Vermeer). Tommy feels that he deserves something as well. In his first new day of class, Ms. Hussey announces that the world-famous Robie House is soon to be demolished, which she considers to be murder. The class takes a field trip to the house, and both Calder and Petra discover that there are many secrets concerning the building that they were not aware of. After Tommy learns to tolerate Petra, the three (who call themselves 'The Wright 3') work to save the house, even breaking into it toward the end. Tommy finds a fish talisman in the Robie House garden and realizes it is worth a lot of money. Finally, after saving their own lives against a band of robbers in the Robie house, they manage to save that of the house. In almost every illustration, there is a drawing of a fish (referring to Frank Lloyd Wright's lucky talisman) that is usually hidden by nature. They appear in each chapter with the fibonacci sequence. On one of the last illustrations, a dragon can be found, expressing the change from carp to dragon in the story. Toward the bottom of the last picture there are footprints from the invisible man. In several images, a face can be spotted.
Sabrina and Daphne are off to school, but when Sabrina's teacher, Mr. Grumpner, is murdered, with a scarlet handprint left on the chalkboard (the sign of the Scarlet Hand), they realize that something is very odd. With the help of Puck and Wendell, the son of the Pied Piper of Hamelin; who is also the principal of their school, they search the school's halls for clues, finally coming upon a shocking secret and a deadly encounter with the children of some very famous fairy-tale characters and the monstrous Rumpelstiltskin, who has been discovered by one of their ancestors to have the ability to act like a bomb. Sabrina and Daphne discover a cave under school using matches that Mayor Charming gave them to take them wherever they needed, where she finds her family and friends trapped in a web where they would be soon suffocated to death when Rumpelstiltskin would have the power (which he gets from strong feelings such as anger) to blow up the entire cave so they could escape from a magical barrier trapping the Everafters in the city, but which isn't as strong deep underground. Sabrina, while defeating Rumpelstiltskin and his supporters, discovers that the plotters are part of a secret Everafter organization called the Scarlet Hand, who had killed Grumpner and kidnapped her parents. Sabrina, after saving the trapped people, goes to a ruins of a hospital using the matches and comes face to face with the kidnapper of her parents who is a mentally
The book is divided into two sections: in the first part, a narrative retells the formative years of the young Adolf Hitler between 1907 and 1918, when he lived as a starving artist on the streets and in the asylums of Vienna, and then joined World War I as a volunteer on the Western Front. When the war ends, Hitler comes into contact with members of the Thule Society in Munich, an association of occultists who had launched a political party, the German Workers Party (DAP).The narrative ends in 1920 when Hitler takes over the DAP and turns it into the Nazi Party (NSDAP). In an interview with The Guardian, author Claus Hant explained that the events after 1920 are exhaustively documented in the numerous Hitler biographies. But what the biographies do not investigate is the time before then, when Hitler was transformed from inconsequential artist and drifter to towering political leader. Hant says that he has centered Young Hitler deliberately around this momentous transformation. According to Hant, this decisive turning point in Hitler’s life can only be explained satisfactory now that recent research has unearthed certain previously unknown data and facts. The second part of the book is purely non-fiction. It contains detailed appendices with many little-known facts about Hitler. Most importantly, the appendices substantiate Hant’s thesis which casts a surprising new light on the reasons behind Hitler’s rise to power.
Dalgliesh visits Saint Anselm's in a semi-official capacity to follow up the death of a student some time previously - his father was not satisfied with the verdict. Whilst there, a visiting Archdeacon is murdered. Dalgliesh is assigned the investigation, summoning D I Miskin and D I Tarrant from London to assist, as well as local officers. Initial suspicion falls on one of the fathers who run and teach at the college, as the archdeacon was known to be recommending the closure of the college. Two more murders follow and after all present have been questioned, several skeletons are brought out the cupboard - including the fact that one of the students is unknowingly the son of one of the lay lecturers and that through his Mother, he will inherit the property, should it be closed and sold. Forensic evidence clinches the case against the lecturer and he confesses. The college is closed and the student inherits the proceeds. In this novel, Dalgliesh meets and begins a relationship with Dr Emma Lavenham, a visiting teacher from Cambridge.
Newspaper columnist Mitch Albom recounts time spent with his 78-year-old sociology professor, Morrie Schwartz, at Brandeis University, who was dying from Lou Gehrig's disease (ALS). Albom, a former student of Schwartz, had not corresponded with him since attending his college classes 16 years earlier. The first three chapters incorporate an ambiguous introduction to the final conversation between Albom and Schwartz, a brief flashback to Albom's graduation, and an account of the events Albom experienced between graduation and the reunion with his professor. Albom is a successful sports columnist for the Detroit Free Press despite his childhood dream of being a pianist. After seeing Schwartz on Nightline, Albom called Schwartz, who remembered his former pupil despite the lapse of 16 years. Albom was prompted to travel from Michigan to Massachusetts to visit Schwartz. A newspaper strike frees Albom to commute weekly, Tuesdays, to visit with Schwartz. The resulting book is based on these fourteen Tuesdays they meet, supplemented with Schwartz's lectures and life experiences and interspersed with flashbacks and allusions to contemporary events.
Rob Horton is 14 years old and lives with his father in a Florida motel called the Kentucky Star. The father and son have recently moved to Lister, Florida, after the death of Rob’s mother. In the woods near the motel Rob discovers a live tiger in a cage. On the same day he discovers the tiger, Rob meets Sistine Bailey a new girl in school with an angry temper. Rob, having an unnamed skin condition, is asked by the principal to stay home from school until his rash clears up. Rob’s rash is a visible display of his emotional denial as he packs away his difficult feelings in an imaginary suitcase. Rob sees his exile from school as a reprieve, for he is bullied constantly by the other kids at his middle school. Sistine visits Rob daily saying she is bringing him homework. Rob is given the duty of feeding the tiger by the unscrupulous motel manager, Beauchamp With the assistance of Rob, Sistine plots and attempts to set the tiger free. The act of setting the tiger free allows Rob to let go of the painful emotions related to his mother’s death that he has suppressed. However, Rob's dad finds the tiger in the woods and kills it by shooting it. Rob, Sistine, Willie May and Rob's father had a funeral for the tiger, which reminded rob of his mothers funeral. Theme:Their's a lesson to everything Rob.
Kang In-ho is a teacher forced to leave his family after the suicide of a former student he had been romantically involved with. He settles in Mujin (a fictional city) where he finds employment as a teacher at a school for the hearing impaired. On the first day of his new job, a young boy is struck and killed by a train, the latest of a series of accidents he soon discovers. He hears of a young girl who had recently committed suicide by jumping off a cliff. Kang soon suspects things are not as they seem and discovers that the students, (both boys and girls) are being abused by the principal (a powerful and highly respected member of the community), an administrative head and a dormitory superintendent. Kang's efforts to bring the crimes to the attention of the public are met with resistance by corrupt police, doctors and other business leaders. The defense lawyers further attempt to discredit Kang by bringing to light his past misdeeds, including the affair with his former student who committed suicide. Compounding all, the financially strapped parents agree to remain silent about the incident in exchange for money. In the end, the three accused are sentenced to probation and set free to return to the school. Kang, humiliated at having his personal failures publicized and frustrated by the lack of justice decides to leave Mujin and return to his family in Seoul.
Greg "Rat" Rathbone is on an undercover mission to befriend the son of notorious activist, Kurt Lydon, and change the plan of his nuclear system. Rat is soon invited to a sleepover by Lydon's son George and after defeating a group of bullies in a fight earns further popularity from George and his overweight Chinese friend, Zhang. Back at campus, Lauren Adams, Jake Parker and Andy Lagan are forced to do physical training on the assault course after messing around in front of a guest speaker. Although overseen by volunteers James Adams and Bruce Norris, Andy is severely injured but still takes part in the mission, posing as Rat's Scottish cousin. At the sleepover, Rat and Andy sedate George, Zhang and Lydon's wife and begin hacking into Lydon's laptop but are interrupted by George's older sister, Sophie. She badly injures Rat by breaking a vase over his head. After a vicious struggle, the boys sedate her and finish the job. The book ends with Lydon and several other suspects being imprisoned and a new library being opened at campus on World Book Day.
Lieutenant Siriman Keita has returned from a long service in the French Colonial Army (during which he was awarded the Croix de guerre) to Kouta, a market village near his smaller home village of Kouroula. In Kouta, he at first plots to ascend to the canton chiefdom while avoiding his envious older brother, Faganda. However, his plans are scrapped when he humiliates himself in a horse-riding accident before the village, and he withdraws to his fortress-like "square house." After a time, he adopts a fatherless boy who he had once punished for stealing, and marries Awa, a Senegalese woman of questionable reputation. Disaster strikes the lieutenant again, however, when the French commandant incites him to lead a punitive expedition against the pro-independence village of Woudi. When the expedition fails, the lieutenant is stripped and humiliated before the people of Kouta and, after the commandant denies his own involvement, is sent to jail in the country's capital for disturbing the peace. He returns to find Awa pregnant by a young pro-independence activist, but having changed during his incarceration, the lieutenant forgives her betrayal and adopts the coming child as his own. He reconciles with the imam of the local mosque, formerly a bitter enemy, and eventually becomes the village muezzin, only to die mysteriously following an injection by his envious brother. The imam does him the honor of burying him in the mosque, while the French administrators, concerned by the example of his conversion, hastily and posthumously award him the Legion
The German title translates something like Confusion or Disturbance, but the American publisher chose Gargoyles, perhaps in order to render the array of human freaks the novel depicts to its very end. In fact, this is a singular, surreal study of the nature of humanity. One morning a doctor takes his son—an idealistic student of science and rationality—on his daily rounds through the grim mountainous Austrian countryside. They observe the rural grotesques they encounter -- from an innkeeper whose wife has been murdered to a crippled musical prodigy kept in a cage -- coping with physical misery, madness, and the brutality of the austere landscape. But when they meet the insomniac Prince Saurau in his castle at Hochgobernitz, his solitary, stationary mind takes over the rest of the novel in an uninterrupted obsessive paragraph. It's a hundred-page monologue by an eccentric, paranoid man, a relentlessly flowing cascade of words that is classic Bernhard: the furious logorrhea is a mesmeric rant, completing the stylistic formation of his art of exaggeration, where he uses metaphors of physical and mental illness to explore the decay of his homeland.
Inside an almost isolated Skåne farmhouse in Lunnarp, an old man, Johannes Lövgren is tortured to death and his wife Maria savagely beaten and left for dead with a noose around her neck. Inspector Kurt Wallander, a forty-two-year-old Ystad police detective, and his team &ndash; Rydberg, an aging detective with a rheumatism; Martinsson, a 29-year-old rookie; Naslund, a thirty-year veteran; Svedberg, a balding, forty-something-year-old detective; Hansson; and Peters &ndash; are put on the case. Maria Lovgren is taken to a hospital, but dies anyway. Her last word: "foreign". Rydberg has been examining the noose around Mrs Lovgren's neck and "has never seen one like it before". He thinks that Mrs Lovgren's last word is accurate, and that the murderers are foreign. But his conclusion leads to several racially-motivated attacks after the information is leaked to the press. The story focuses on Sweden's liberal attitude regarding immigration, and explores themes of racism and national identity.
Marty Strauss, a gambling addict recently released from prison, is hired to be the personal bodyguard of Joseph Whitehead, one of the wealthiest men in the world. The job proves more complicated and dangerous than he thought, however, as Marty soon gets caught up in a series of supernatural events involving Whitehead, his daughter (who is a heroin addict), and a devilish man named Mamoulian, with whom Whitehead made a Faustian bargain many years earlier, during World War II. As time passes, Mamoulian haunts Whitehead using his supernatural powers (such as the ability to raise the dead), urging him to complete his pact with him. Eventually Whitehead decides to escape his fate after a few encounters with Mamoulian and having his wife, former bodyguard, and now his daughter Carys taken away from him. With hope still left to save Carys, Marty Strauss, although reluctant to get involved in the old man Whiteheads deserved Punishment, decides to get involved and attempt to save the innocent gifted addict from being another victim to the damnation game.
The book begins with a dive into the journey of an Aboriginal tribe which, in 70,000 BCE, crosses the straits of Sunda toward what will become Australia. It is a chaotic and cadaver-ridden course and a fight against climatic evolution. Through centuries, the odyssey reveals a challenging cohabitation with other species and soon a violent confrontation with white Caucasian newcomers. In an additional contemporary plot, Liz, a young Australian woman, moves to France in search of her lost origins. But behind its postcard appearance, the small Provence village where her mother had lived is not what it seems to be. Somebody tries to drown Liz into the pond near her new house, just before the young woman finds a dead body in this pond. Liz is still far from knowing what or who she will have to fight, what or who has followed her from Sydney, from a past that she did not even suspect. Besides the criminal aspects, the story is a novelistic presentation of the history of humankind, trying to make the reader look at the world differently and make them understand that differences are really relative.
Two china figurines (a shepherdess and a chimney sweep) stand side by side on a table top. They are in love. Their romance is threatened, however, by the carved mahogany figure of a satyr called "General-clothes-press-inspector-head-superintendent-Goat-legs" living on a nearby cabinet who wants the shepherdess for his wife. The satyr importunes a porcelain Chinaman on the table (who considers himself the shepherdess' grandfather) to give his consent to the marriage. When the Chinaman agrees to the union, the shepherdess and the chimney sweep flee, clambering down a table leg to the floor. They hide in a toy theater, and, when they emerge, discover the Chinaman has fallen to the floor in attempting to pursue them. The lovers then climb with great difficulty through a stove pipe to the roof, sustained in their flight by a star shining high above them. When the shepherdess reaches the rooftop and gazes upon the world before her, she takes fright at its vastness, and wants to return to the table top. The chimney sweep tries to dissuade her, but, as he loves her greatly, he finally accedes to her wishes and guides her back to the table top. There, the two discover the Chinaman has been repaired in such a way that he cannot press the shepherdess to marry the satyr. The lovers are safe at last.
Freddie Threepwood, still trying to persuade his Aunt Georgiana of the benefits of Donaldson's Dog-Joy, hears that his cousin Gertrude has become infatuated with Orlo Watkins, a weedy tenor invited to the castle by Lady Constance. While visiting his friend Beefy Bingham to borrow his dog Bottles, Freddie learns that she has indeed all but "handed him the bird". Freddie tells this to Lady Georgiana, while giving a rather poor demonstration of Dog-Joy's powers, during which Bottles is scared off by Susan, one of Lady Georgiana's Pekes. He later tries to reason with his cousin, but to no avail; the glamour of the singer has taken her over. That evening, while the household take after-dinner coffee in the drawing room, Freddie enters with Bottles and a sack of rats, intending to demonstrate the Dog-Joy reared mongrel's ratcatching prowess; Orlo Watkins, observed by Gertrude, cringes somewhat at the sight. The family protest, and Beach is called to take the bag of rats away. Bottles remains, however, and when one of Lady Georgiana's Airedales comes in, a mighty battle commences. Watkins, to Gertrude's disgust, leaps atop a display cabinet, while the others dither about. Just in time, Bingham enters, sees the fight in progress, and breaks it up by the simple expedient of taking one dog in each massive hand and pulling. His manly display shakes the scales from Gertrude's eyes, and she falls into his arms, while Watkins slinks off, defeated. Lady Georgiana, meanwhile, is so impressed by Bottles' performance that
Linda Martin lands in Paris on a cold, gray, and rainy day. She is on her way to her new post as a governess to the young Count Philippe de Valmy. Having lost both his parents in a tragic accident, the nine-year-old boy lives with his aunt and uncle in the vast and ornate Château Valmy in the French countryside. Léon de Valmy, Philippe's uncle, runs the estate on behalf of his underage nephew until he comes of age and arranged for a proper English governess for his charge. When Linda arrives at the imposing manor, she is at once enchanted by its beauty and history, but is also immediately struck by the sense of menace and doom surrounding the land and its inhabitants. Léon is a charismatic force of nature and quite charming and, when Linda meets his reckless and rakishly handsome son Raoul, she understands a bit more about the de Valmy heritage and what makes this family tick. As she becomes closer to Philippe and Raoul, Linda draws ever nearer to putting her finger on the source of the threat. But the layers of danger and darkness run deeper than any of them guessed and she may not be able to trust those she wants to, no matter how innocent or attractive they may seem. Soon it is up to the shy young governess to beat the clock in order to save Philippe's life as well as her own.
The title character is a poor and fatherless teenager growing up in The Bronx. Billy and his friends are in awe of the flashy mobsters in the neighborhood. Dutch Schultz and Otto Berman, based on the real-life mobsters, hire Billy as a gofer and become mentors to him. The gangsters take Billy up to their upstate hideaway, where they are awaiting a trial. Schultz becomes a community leader and converts to Catholicism. Billy works his way up but begins to question his actions when he falls in love with Dutch's moll Drew, whom Dutch plans to have killed. Billy is sent to Saratoga Springs with Drew to keep an eye on her. They act as a couple in Saratoga. He realizes that she is to be killed and calls her husband in New York City to come and rescue her. After Schultz is acquitted, Attorney General Thomas Dewey brings up more charges and the gang goes into hiding. This time they are in Union City, New Jersey. While Billy is visiting the gang to give them updates on Dewey's routine, unnamed gangsters come in and kill everyone except Billy and the bartender. Billy goes back to Schultz's hotel room and takes all the money from his safe.
The Wylies, a well-to-do but uneducated Scottish family, are concerned about their daughter, Maggie, a plain young woman who they fear, will remain a spinster. One night the Wylies discover that a serious young university student, John Shand, has been breaking into their home so that he can read books from their large library. Shand is penniless and cannot afford to buy books for his law school education. Maggie Wylie and John Shand come to an understanding: that her family will fund his education if, at the end of five years, he agrees to marry her. John honours his commitment to Maggie, marrying her although he does not love her. Recognising her husband's ambition to become a Member of Parliament, Maggie quietly uses her intelligence and her connections behind the scenes to get John elected. She continues to foster his career, never allowing him to see that she is the power behind his rise to fame. Eventually John begins to believe that his wife is too plain for a man of his stature and position, and he takes up with Lady Sybil Lazenby, a beautiful, refined and high-born young Englishwoman. Maggie is prepared to let her husband go, if Sybil can help him more than she herself can. However, when Shand is preparing a speech that will make or break his career, he finds that Sybil is no help to him, and he realises that Maggie is his inspiration.
Francis Petrel, recently released from an asylum faces his own inner demons as he recounts his memories of a murderer in the asylum during his time there. The story tells itself in two parallel parts: one of the stories is during his time in the asylum, all a memory slowly bringing itself back to life; the other story takes place after he is released, and he feels compelled to author a book on the events surrounding that murder. He has no paper, so he writes his story on the wall and is constantly challenged with tedious interruptions. At the same time, he forgoes his medication, and the tension of continuing with his work becomes threatened by his struggle with his own madness. It is currently being turned into a movie and it was supposed to be filmed from November 26th, 2007 until approximately January 20th, 2008 at Fairfield State Hospital in Newtown, Connecticut. Filming has not yet taken place due to personal issues of Jonathan Rhys Meyers, the films star, according to an article in the Newtown Beehttp://www.newtownbee.com/. Trivia: Descriptions in the text suggest that the central hospital, "Western State Hospital", is actually modeled on the Northampton State Hospital, which operated in Northampton, MA from 1856 - 1996.
Belinda is a young lady who lives with her aunt, Mrs. Stanhope. Being unwed, Belinda is sent to live with Lady Delacour, whom Belinda considers fascinating and charming. Lady Delacour believes herself to be dying of breast cancer. She hides her emotional distress caused by her impending death and poor relationships with her family from Belinda through wit and charm. The first half of the novel is concerned with the blooming friendship between Belinda and Lady Delacour, which is broken by Lady Delacour's fear that Belinda plans to marry Lord Delacour, expressed in the line, "I see...that she [Belinda] who I thought had the noblest of souls has the meanest! I see that she is incapable of feeling." Belinda subsequently moves to the home of the Percival family, the embodiment of the ideal family. Once Lady Delacour seeks treatment for her illness, Belinda returns to support her. Upon her visit to the doctor, Lady Delacour discovers her disease is not terminal and reconciles herself with Belinda. She eventually makes a full recovery from her illness.
John Ashbery summarizes Locus Solus thus in his introduction to Michel Foucault's Death and the Labyrinth: "A prominent scientist and inventor, Martial Canterel, has invited a group of colleagues to visit the park of his country estate, Locus Solus. As the group tours the estate, Canterel shows them inventions of ever-increasing complexity and strangeness. Again, exposition is invariably followed by explanation, the cold hysteria of the former giving way to the innumerable ramifications of the latter. After an aerial pile driver which is constructing a mosaic of teeth and a huge glass diamond filled with water in which float a dancing girl, a hairless cat named Khóng-dek-lèn, and the preserved head of Danton, we come to the central and longest passage: a description of eight curious tableaux vivants taking place inside an enormous glass cage. We learn that the actors are actually dead people whom Canterel has revived with 'resurrectine', a fluid of his invention which if injected into a fresh corpse causes it continually to act out the most important incident of its life." As well as Dutch, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish translations, there have been three English translations of the work in question, published by the University of California Press (Berkeley) (1970), Calder and Boyers (London) (1970) and Calder (2008), and all based on Rupert Copeland Cunningham's scholarship and transcription.
Arthur Zouch, portrait painter and self-declared "superman," comes to stay at Passenger Court, ostensibly to paint the portrait of the younger Passenger daughter, Mary, but in no small part on the lookout for any opportunity he can find to improve either his social, financial, or sexual satisfaction. At Passenger court, he finds opportunity for all three, but he also finds unanticipated conflict in the person of Vernon Passenger, also a self-proclaimed "superman." Meanwhile, the neighboring Fosdick family – the Major, his sons Torquil and Jasper – carry on a seemingly perpetual feud with the Passengers that is as often characterized by displays of better manners and more proper etiquette as it is by bad temper and argument. Joanna Brandon, a local young woman, further complicates the lives of several of the principals; she may be Powell’s most sensitively rendered female character. The novel moves through ten chapters toward an inescapable denouement, though never tipping its hand as to precisely how the foreshadowing of the title shall be brought to fruition. The parallel plots (at times almost Lear-like in the development of the neighbouring families) reach a double climax from which only one ‘superman’ can emerge.
In the summer of 1915, Beata Wittgenstein falls in love with a young Catholic French officer and follows her heart to be with him against the wishes of her Jewish Orthodox family and decides to live with him in Switzerland till World War 1 ends. After the war gets over, she goes back to Germany with her husband Antoine and her 2 year old daughter Amadea. They begin a peaceful life and after 8 years, she has her second daughter, Daphne. Antoine dies soon after his father's death and his fortune as a Count is passed on to Beata, allowing her to take care of her family for years. However, after the death of her husband, she drifts away from her daughters and it is only when Amadea decides to become a nun, that she realizes her duty. As the war threatens her daughters, Beata's views of the future change. She is not discovered as a Jewish-born, but when a woman from her past recognizes her, Beata and Daphne are arrested and die in a concentration camp. Amadea, a Carmelite nun is saved as she had stayed in the convent but is still forced into hiding as her friends disappear without a trace. She is sent to a concentration camp and escapes with the help of a German soldier. But, when he tries to rape her, she kills him and flees the country with the help of Partisans. As she flees and crosses the country ravaged by war, she decides
Veronica “Ronnie” Miller’s life was turned upside down when her parents divorced and her father, Steve, moved to Wrightsville, North Carolina. Three years later, she remains distant from her parents, particularly Steve, until her mother decides it would be everyone’s best interest if she and her brother spent the summer with him. Resentful and rebellious, Ronnie rejects Steve’s attempts to reach out to her and threatens to return to New York before the summer’s end. But soon Ronnie meets Will, the last person she thought she’d ever be attracted to, and finds herself falling for him, opening herself up to the greatest happiness – and pain – that she has never known. Ronnie finds out that Steve has stomach cancer. She and her brother, Jonah, finish the window that Jonah started with Steve for the church. Jonah goes back to New York with their mother, but Ronnie stays back with Steve until his death. She completes the song on the piano that he began to write. She and Will part after the funeral and she believes that they will never meet properly again, she thought it was over, but after Christmas, he transfers and goes to college in New York, near where Ronnie goes to college, so he can spend more time with Ronnie.
The novel deals with the expedition of Hadon, a young Oparian warrior, to the Wild Lands and as far as the mysterious Ringing Sea, which would one day be called the Mediterranean, with the strange woman whom he meets and brings with him, and with the cataclysmic civil war which breaks out on his return and which he partly (and completely unintentionally) helps touch off. The ancient Khokarsan society of which Opar is a part is a matriarchy (a reasonable inference from the culture of the later-day Opar encountered by Tarzan). A delicate balance between the genders is maintained, symbolized by the co-rule of the high priestess and the king (whose main authority is command of the army), which corresponds to some theories of sociologists and historians on the way actual matriarchal societies may have worked. The same scheme is repeated on a smaller scale on the local level, where towns are co-governed by a local priestess and the commander of the local garrison. The current king, Minruth, tries to subvert this immemorial system and establish exclusive male power, which incidentally would force an incestuous relationship upon the current high priestess, Awineth, who happens to be his daughter. Lalila, the foreign "White Witch from the Sea," whom Hadon brings with him and with whom he falls in love, is used as a pawn in King Minruth's power game; the xenophobic suspicions aroused about her are used in an attempt to undermine the position of women in general. Hadon and his
The story begins in Santa Barbara, California. Travis Cornell, a former Delta Force operative, feels that his life has grown pointless, and is exploring a canyon near his home when he encounters two genetically engineered creatures that have escaped from a top-secret government lab. One, a golden retriever with extraordinarily enhanced intelligence, befriends Travis; the other, a terrifying creature known as the Outsider, appears to be trying to kill the dog. After eluding the Outsider, Travis takes the dog home and names him Einstein. Meanwhile, Nora Devon, an introverted young woman, whose abusive aunt recently has died, is attacked in her home by a man who attempts to rape her. Travis and Einstein intervene and the three quickly form a tight bond. Travis, Nora, and Einstein soon find themselves on the run not only from the Outsider, but from federal agents determined to track down the lab escapees, and Vince Nasco, a ruthless professional assassin, hired to kill the creatures and eliminate any witnesses he may encounter along the way.
The novel takes place at Rubicon, a fictional science fiction convention taking place in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, DC, and at which the guests of honor are Appin Dungannon, a fantasy author noted for his books about hero Tratyn Runewind, and Dr. James O. Mega, an electrical engineering professor at Virginia Tech, who, under the pen name Jay Omega, has written one novel. That novel, a hard science fiction book about a space station crew whose female members are affected by radiation from a star (their intellect is diminished), was retitled "Bimbos of the Death Sun" and given an R-rated cover by the publisher. Mega is somewhat lost in the world of hardcore SF and fantasy fans at the con, but his companion Marion, a professor of English literature, is more familiar with things, and she guides him through it. They have troubles, such as being asked to judge a fiction contest. All seems to be going somewhat well for Mega, but his co-Guest of Honor, Dungannon, is making it a point to offend everyone at the con. It is hardly surprising when he is killed, a bullet through his heart. The fans react by buying up everything with his signature in the huckster room. The police are equally at sea. Everyone had a motive to kill Dungannon, but no one had the opportunity, so it seems. Mega corrals the suspects into a role-playing game and works out a confession ala Hamlet. Also, a lot of science fiction fans
Joyce Summers is running a local art show for people from around the United States. A girl named Justine shows up the first day to sign in and Xander is immediately attracted to her. She offers to do a Tarot reading for him which he agrees to. Once Xander has touched her magickal deck he comes under her control and has no will of his own. Justine is building a powerful deck of Tarot cards which will allow her to control the fate of the world with the help of the goddess Kali, who, in return, wants ultimate peace on Earth. Only Justine doesn't realize what ultimate peace is and she's come to Sunnydale to collect the last four people she needs to complete her deck of cards. Once her deck has been completed the four people remaining needed for the deck will die like the other eighteen she's used to make the deck. Buffy must figure out how her friends are being controlled and find a way to fight herself out of the power of Justine's Tarot cards. Buffy novels such as this one are not usually considered by fans as canonical. Some fans consider them stories from the imaginations of authors and artists, while other fans consider them as taking place in an alternative fictional reality. However unlike fan fiction, overviews summarising their story, written early in the writing process, were 'approved' by both Fox and Joss Whedon (or his office), and the books were therefore later published
The novel tells the story of Colonel Thomas Newcome, a virtuous and upstanding character. It is equally the story of Colonel Newcome's son, Clive, who studies and travels for the purpose of becoming a painter, although the profession is frowned on by some of his relatives and acquaintances &mdash; notably Clive's snobbish, backstabbing cousin Barnes Newcome. Colonel Newcome goes out to India for decades, then returns to England where Clive meets his cousin Ethel. After years in England, the colonel returns to India for another several years and while he is there, Clive travels Europe and his love for Ethel waxes and wanes. Dozens of background characters appear, fade, and reappear. The colonel and Clive are only the central figures in The Newcomes, the action of which begins before the colonel's birth. Over several generations the Newcome family rises into wealth and respectability as bankers and begin to marry into the minor aristocracy. A theme that runs throughout the novel is the practice of marrying for money. Herein we find first use of the coined word "capitalism", as reference an economic system. Religion is another theme, particularly Methodism.
When a newly-developed android developed by Starfleet is destroyed, Lieutenant Commander Data helps investigate the incident and who is responsible. During the course of his search he discovers he is not as unique as he once believed. During the run of the original Star Trek series many other robots and androids were seen, yet Data is often referred to as the only android in existence during the time of Star Trek: The Next Generation. Immortal Coil explains what happened to those other robots and androids, and how Data fits into their histories. The story references several previously-seen artificial intelligences and characters: * Exocomps from the TNG episode "The Quality of Life" * Androids from the TOS episode "What Are Little Girls Made Of?" * The M5 computer from the TOS episode "The Ultimate Computer" * Flint and Reyna from the TOS episode "Requiem for Methuselah" * Doctor Ira Graves from the TNG episode "The Schizoid Man" * Commander Bruce Maddox from the TNG episode "The Measure of a Man" * Dr. Noonien Soong, Data's creator, first seen in the TNG episode "Brothers"
The book starts three months after the end of Peter and the Starcatchers. Slank returns to the island with more of the Others, including a certain Lord Ombra, to reclaim the trunk of starstuff lost in the previous book. When they learn that the Starcatchers have taken the trunk back to England, they set sail for London. Peter follows, fearing for Molly's safety, and with Tinker Bell's help conceals himself on their ship. Once in London, Peter does not know where to find Molly. After unpleasant encounters with beggars, traders and the police, Peter finally gets directions from J. M. Barrie to Lord Aster's house, and rescues Molly from Lord Ombra in the nick of time. However, Louise Aster- Molly's mother -has been kidnapped by the Others, and the children must find Lord Aster who is guarding the starstuff. Meanwhile, back on the island, the pirates are hunting the Lost Boys. They capture the boys to use as bait for Peter, not knowing he is not on the island. In the end, Molly is saved by Peter, and she takes Peter to her old best friend's house. Where she introduces Peter to George and they become best friends.
In the book, Oppenheimer supports the theory that modern humans first emerged in Africa and that modern human behavior emerged in Africa prior to the Out of Africa migration. Oppenheimer writes that there was only one migration out of Africa that contributed to the peopling of the rest of the world. Oppenheimer believes that anatomically modern humans crossed the Red Sea from the Horn of Africa and followed the "southern coastal route" once in Asia. Thus Oppenheimer is opposed to the theory that there was another out of Africa migration using northern route along the Nile and into the Levant as suggested by Lahr and Foley 1994. The book also supports the theory that modern humans were in South Asia during the Toba Castrophe. Oppenheimer uses familiar names to describe genetic lineages. The biblical analogies of Adam and Eve are used to describe the Most recent common ancestors via mitochondrial DNA and the y-chromosome. Other male lineages are described as Cain, Abel and Seth. Mitochondrial DNA haplogroups are frequently described with female names from regions where the haplogroups are common. For example haplogroup M is named Manju as it is frequent in India, and Haplogroup N is named "Nasreen" as it is predominant in Arabia.
ISBN 0-14-250053-4 Although his father is the prince of the unicorns, Jan worries that he isn't worthy of his prophesied destiny and that he can't live up to his father's legacy. When he follows the warrior unicorns on their pilgrimage, he accidentally leads his friend Dagg and a warrior named Tek through a series of dangers, culminating in a battle with a deadly wyvern, the hated enemy of the unicorns. ISBN 0-316-70744-9 Jan and Tek, finally adults in the eyes of the herd, pledge their love only to have their blossoming relationship interrupted by a vicious attack. Jan is swept by the ocean to a foreign land while Tek, pregnant with their offspring, flees from Jan's father to the protection of her hermit mother. Trapped in a human city by a population that believe him to be a god, Jan struggles to regain his memories. With the help of Ryhenna, a plain horse rather than a unicorn, he escapes back to the sea. As he tries to find his way back to his herd, Jan begins to understand his role as the new prince. ISBN 0-14-250074-7 Jan and Tek confront their past while their children, gifted with foresight, help them prepare the unicorns for realizing their destiny. When his father goes mad and flees from the herd, Jan crosses through the plains of the renegade unicorns, a parched desert, and finally into the realm of dragons, where he is shown the history of the terrible wyverns.
American Memory note: Bowles, editor of the The Republican (Springfield), was one of a party that traveled across the Continent in the summers of 1865 and 1866 to explore the Western United States. Several books resulted from the trips. The detailed subtitle of Bowles's book shows clearly how at the time interests in natural and man-made wonders and in exploitable resources were combined. Bowles sees the railroads as the key that will unlock the region. In addition to his enthusiasm for the West, Bowles urges the preservation of Niagara Falls (probably influenced by Frederick Law Olmsted, whom he met in Yosemite Valley) and of regions of the Adirondacks and Maine (pp. 384-85). West, The--Description and travel--1860-1880. American Memory note: Bowles, editor of the The Republican (Springfield), was one of a party that traveled across the Continent in the summers of 1865 and 1866 to explore the Western United States. Several books resulted from the trips. The detailed subtitle of Bowles's book shows clearly how at the time interests in natural and man-made wonders and in exploitable resources were combined. Bowles sees the railroads as the key that will unlock the region. In addition to his enthusiasm for the West, Bowles urges the preservation of Niagara Falls (probably influenced by Frederick Law Olmsted, whom he met in Yosemite Valley) and of regions of the Adirondacks and Maine (pp. 384-85).
Eleven-year-old Jamie Reardon’s cat dies, his father leaves home; and his aunt Sapphy has an accident at work that causes her memory to skip. Jamie is a boy who is teased at school and, on the other hand, has a memory he'd give anything to be able to forget. He is performing badly at school and has Miss Miller,an unsympathetic teacher. A visiting author, or as Jamie hears the name - 'Arthur', recognises that the boy is troubled, but the two do not have a chance to really communicate. Jamie has to sort out his problems himself. He tries to find the magic trigger that will help Sapphy's memory jump the scratch, like the needle on a record, but in the end it's Audrey Krouch, a neighborhood girl who hypnotises him. Under hypnosis, when he is hoping to learn how to forget, Jamie recalls his recent sexual abuse by Old Gray, a paedophile caretaker at the trailer park where he lives in Traverse City, Michigan. Jamie's emotional reaction to the incident he was trying to suppress returns Sapphy’s memory, and the boy is finally able to tell her everything. The actual abuse is not described in the book. Sarah Weeks has said that, "I felt like I wanted to protect Jamie’s privacy... Jamie didn’t want anybody to know what had happened to him in Old Gray’s office on Christmas Eve, so it didn’t feel right for me to tell all the details either."
Somebody dies. A young mother is recuperating in a San Francisco hospital when she is suddenly gasping for breath. The call button fails to bring help in time. The hospital's doctors, some of the best in the nation, are completely mystified by her death. How did this happen? Apocalypse nears. This is not the first such case at the hospital. Just as patients are about to be released with a clean bill of health, their conditions take a devastating turn for the worse. Accompanied by the newest member of the Women's Murder Club, Yuki Castellano, Lieutenant Lindsay Boxer probes deeper into the incidents. Could these cases just be appalling coincidences? Or is a maniac playing God with people's lives? When someone close to the Women's Murder Club begins to exhibit the same frightening symptoms, Lindsay fears no one is safe. The 5th horseman rides. It is a wild race against time as Lindsay's investigation reveals a hospital administration determined to shield its reputation at all costs. And while the hospital wages an explosive court battle that grips the entire nation, Lindsay and the Women's Murder Club hunt for a merciless killer among its esteemed medical staff.
Duff Pringle is heading across the country, aiming for his new job in technology in California's Silicon Valley. His used Ford Escort barely makes it a hundred miles from home before breaking down. He calls a car towing company to come pick him up, and when they get to the repair center, the car would need to stay 3–4 days. Duff only has 2 weeks to get to California. Duff checks in to a motel, thinking he would stay the 3–4 days, and soon finds a note asking for someone to drive a car to St. Louis. Duff sends this person an email and gets a reply saying they would drop it off at the motel he was staying at. Duff finds Stu in the parking lot while he was waiting. Stu is a hitchhiker looking to get to California too, and he asks Duff if he could come with him. Despite his appearance and behavior, Duff accepts, and they head to Saint Louis to deliver the car, a 1957 Chevrolet Bel Air, to a woman named Rosalie Hopgood. There are several characters in this story including Bonnie, an aspiring singer with a con artist for a mother (Bonnie's mom had stolen a lot of money from people and was wanted everywhere); two thugs looking for a trunkfull of cash; and Moony, a terrier dog prone to carsickness.
Julián Estaban, who is impersonating the Mayan god Kukulcán, fights and escapes from a powerful gold hungry conquistador, Hernán Cortés. Kukulcán’s followers captured Rodrigo Perdoza, a bishop carrying a message to Cortés to detain Julián. Julián wants to be a priest and asks the bishop many times to make him one, but in the end he lets the Mayan priest sacrifice him, and Julián takes the bishop's amethyst ring. Cortés attacks and captures Kukulcán’s city, the City of the Seven Serpents, but Julián escapes to a friendly large village and helps them harvest and trade pearls. He then goes to a smaller trading town and partners with Tzom Zambac and they have a successful feathered cloak business. Fearing betrayal from Tzom, he leaves and eventually finds Francisco Pizarro, a conquistador who is taking a band of Spaniards to get gold from the Inca. They capture the Incan king Atahualpa, who has a room filled with gold to pay his ransom. The Spaniards try and kill him anyway. Julián leaves the group because of his disagreements with the trial. He searches for Chima, a daughter of Atahualpa, whom he has fallen in love with. He finds her and she rejects him because he is a Spaniard. Julián then uses all of his gold to sail back to Seville. There he meets Cantú the Dwarf, who is now very wealthy from gold. Cantú gives Julián a lot of gold, but he joins the Brothers of the Poor and gives it all to
The Silent Boy is told by Katy Thatcher, an old woman in 1987, about a critical period in her life from 1908 to 1911. Katy, whose father is a community doctor, dreams of becoming a doctor herself. Katy takes an interest in Jacob, a “touched” boy from a neighboring farm, who can't speak, but somehow hums quietly to himself, and seems able to communicate with animals. Jacob occasionally comes to the Thatcher home to be in the barn with the animals. Katy shares Jacob’s love of animals and comes to feel she can communicate with him in a rudimentary but empathetic way. When Nell, the sister of Jacob, has a baby out of wedlock by Paul Bishop, Jacob is aware of the trouble. He abducts and brings the baby to the Thatcher's house on a stormy night, hoping to save it the way he has saved orphaned lambs by bringing them to a substitute mother. But it doesn't go the way he had planned it to. Later, Katy marries Austin Bishop and becomes a doctor. 50 years later the Asylum closed and Jacob was never seen again. There were no records of him there.
The original novel, which is set on the bleak coast of Northern Michigan, tells the story of a young thief named Jack Ryan who gets a new shot at life with the help of a justice of the peace named Mr. Majestyk (Leonard later wrote a novel called Mr. Majestyk, with a title character that is completely unrelated to the character of the same name in The Big Bounce), who hires Jack to work at his beach resort. During this time, Jack gets involved with a psychotic woman named Nancy, a young seductress who got her thrills by smashing windows and breaking the hearts of married men. Nancy is the girlfriend of a millionaire, Ray Ritchie, and also cheating on him with another man, Bob Jr. She plans to have Jack steal a $50,000 payroll from Ray. But when simple housebreaking and burglary give way to the deadly pursuit of a really big score, the stakes suddenly skyrocket. Because violence and double-cross are the name of this game—and it's going to take every ounce of cunning Jack and Nancy possess to survive...each other.
The plot opens in the year 2021.India is ruled by a dictator Jeeva. In his rule, population is kept under control, old people are allowed to live only up to particular age and are killed when they cross the limit, each and every one should have names with two letters only alloted by Government, every Citizen of the country must strictly adhere to the rule of Jeeva and admire,adore him, everywhere and anywhere lies Robots, people are identified only with their social security numbers and all the details are fed and controlled by Master Computer at Capital City. On a New Year eve, Nila, a homemaker lady is very delighted for having Government permission letter to have a boy baby from Population Control Board. She intimates the news to her husband Sibi. While Government, allots a home space of Nila's residence for a man Ravi and his pet Jeano. Jeano is a Robotic pet which could speak. As per government rule, home space should not be alloted for more than three people. So Nila's husband leaves to verify about Ravi's allotment but not returns back to home. Nila, to find him, uses his social security number but wonders to get an answer that there is no existence of such a person. She tries to find him but in vain. What happened to Sibi? What is the role of Ravi in Sibi's disappearance? How Nila finds her husband and a shocking truth about Jeeva and his dictatorship with the help of
The story is set aboard the Sky pirate ship The Galerider. Wind Jackal wants revenge against his previous quartermaster, Turbot Smeal, for burning down the Western Quays in Undertown along with most of Wind Jackal's family. Meanwhile the Leagues of Undertown begin making preparations for war with the sky pirates. The Galeriders crew encounter several dangerous traps as Wind Jackal carries out his quest to find Smeal. The crew of The Galerider are puzzled but it soon becomes clear, as it turns out in the end that the alleged Turbot Smeal was an imposter, greater and far more envious. Eventually in the end, only Wind Jackal, Quint, Tem Barkwater and Spillins the Oakelf remain of the original crew. They come to the wreck of a skyship and meet a man in a skullpelt mask who claims to be Turbot Smeal. Wind Jackal and 'Turbot Smeal' have a duel and Wind Jackal is killed. The man reveals himself to be one of the crewmembers, Thaw Daggerslash. The truth is revealed at the end of the book. The book features a massive sky battle between the Leagues of Undertown and the Sky Pirates. The Climax comes when the Leagues launch the Bringer of Doom.
Wedge Antilles, fresh back from the Bacta War on Thyferra, decides to make a new fighter squadron/commando team. While pitching the idea to Admiral Ackbar, he proposes a way to build the squadron without any cost to the New Republic: he'll use screw-ups, wash-outs, and pilots who are a hair's breadth of being kicked out of Fighter Command&mdash;the pilots that no one else will take. Whilst Rogue Squadron was compiled from elite pilots with ground fighting expertise as a secondary, this new squadron was to be consisted of expert ground combatants with piloting skills as a secondary. Antilles, with help from Wes Janson, scrounges up a team that comes to be known as Wraith Squadron: *Jesmin Ackbar, communications expert and the niece of Admiral Ackbar *Hohass "Runt" Ekwesh, a Thakwaash with multiple personalities *Garik "Face" Loran, a former Imperial child-recruitment actor *Voort "Piggy" SaBinring, a Gamorrean pilot *Kell Tainer, the son of a Rebel pilot that Janson was forced to kill and a demolitions expert *Myn Donos, the sole surviving pilot of an Imperial ambush to his Talon squadron *Ton Phanan, former doctor and part mechanical *Falynn Sandskimmer, vehicle specialist from Tatooine with chronic insolence *Tyria Sarkin, former Antari Ranger with minor Force abilities *Eurrsk "Grinder" Thri'ag, an expert code slicer and prankster The novel focuses on Wraith Squadron's antics as it goes undercover as the crew of Night Caller, an Imperial blockade runner under the employ of Warlord Zsinj.
Martin Clarke is celebrating his acquisition and refurbishment of an old stately home by inviting a number of guests to stay for the weekend. The house has an unsettling history; two decades ago, the butler, a frail man of over 80 years, was killed when he uncharacteristically decided to swing back and forth from the chandelier, which then fell and killed him. Another report features a chair which leaps off the wall at the viewer. Clarke's guests have been selected as a cross-section of "ordinary, skeptical human beings" and have been invited to investigate the rumours of ghostly hauntings. The weekend begins when, as the guests are entering the home, one woman screams and claims that something has clutched at her ankle—something "with fingers". The host immediately tells the story of a former owner of the home whose death was met with such suspicion of witchcraft from the servants that the body lay as it fell for days, and the servants reported that something seemed to clutch at their ankles. The weekend is off to a spooky start but proceeds spectacularly when three witnesses agree that a gun jumped off the wall and killed a seated guest, with no hand holding it. Famous crime-solver and debunker of impossible crimes Gideon Fell is called in to explain matters and does so in a way that leads to a spectacular and fiery finish.
The story is set within a framing narrative told by a supporting character from The Prisoner of Zenda. The frame implies that the events related in both books took place in the late 1870s and early 1880s. This story commences three years after the conclusion of Zenda, and deals with the same fictional country somewhere in Germanic Middle Europe, the kingdom of Ruritania. Most of the same characters recur: Rudolf Elphberg, the dissolute absolute monarch of Ruritania; Rudolf Rassendyll, the English gentleman who had acted as his political decoy, being his distant cousin and look alike; Flavia, the princess, now queen; Rupert of Hentzau, the dashing well-born villain; Fritz von Tarlenheim, the loyal courtier. Queen Flavia, dutifully but unhappily married to her cousin Rudolf V, writes to her true love Rudolf Rassendyll. The letter is carried by von Tarlenheim to be delivered by hand, but it is stolen by the exiled Rupert of Hentzau, who sees in it a chance to return to favour by informing the pathologically jealous and paranoid King. Rassendyll returns to Ruritania to aid the Queen, but is once more forced to impersonate the King after Rupert shoots Rudolf V. In turn, Rassendyll kills Rupert, but is assassinated in the hour of triumph by one of Rupert's henchmen—and thus is spared the crisis of conscience over whether or not to continue the royal deception for years. He is buried as the King in a state funeral, and Flavia reigns on alone, the last of the Elphberg
TunFaire is in a state of unrest; with the sudden end of the war in the Cantard, returning former soldiers are at odds with the half-breeds and immigrants who have taken their places in society. Garrett, however, has his own problems to worry about - he gets knocked out, brought before a group of small-time gods known as the Godoroth, and forced into working for them. The goal: find the "key" to the one remaining temple up for grabs in TunFaire, and do so before the Shayir, the Godoroth's rivals. The Shayir find out about the Godoroth's plans. The Shayir capture Garrett and give him their side of the story. Only with the help of a renegade Shayir called Cat does Garrett manage to escape. As the civil unrest escalates into full-fledged street warfare, the Godoroth and Shayir elevate their search for Garrett, and Cat, who has her own agenda, is apparently the only one Garrett can trust. When the battle between the Godoroth and Shayir spills over into the world of the living, causing madness in the streets of TunFaire, the more powerful gods of the city decide it is time to intervene. After an epic battle between gods, Garrett hopes the trouble is over, but the Dead Man thinks there is still a missing piece or two to the puzzle. Eventually, the Dead Man deduces that there was yet another party behind the struggle between the Godoroth and Shayir. When everything settles down and is sorted out, the
Half Broke Horses is the story of Lily Casey Smith’s life. Author Jeannette Walls, the granddaughter of Lily Casey Smith, wrote the book from Lily’s point of view. Lily is portrayed as a strong, spirited, and resourceful woman, who overcomes poverty and tragedy with the positive attitude that “When God closes a window, he opens a door. But it’s up to you to find it.” As a child growing up on the frontier in Texas, Lily learns how to break horses. At the age of fifteen, she rides five hundred miles, alone, to get to her job as a teacher in a one-room schoolhouse. Later in life, Lily runs a vast cattle ranch in Arizona, along with her second husband and their two children. A woman of many talents, Lily earns extra money at various points in her life by playing poker, selling bootleg liquor, and riding in horse races. She also tries to fight injustice and prejudice wherever she finds it, which occasionally lands her in trouble. Half Broke Horses depicts the freedom of rural life, its joys and struggles, and celebrates the courage and spirit of its protagonist. Jeannette Walls says the book is “in the vein of an oral history, a retelling of stories handed down by my family through the years, and undertaken with the storyteller’s traditional liberties.”
Stormblade chronicles Stanach the dwarf's quest to retrieve the powerful stormblade. The stormblade is a kingsword, a blade which is intended to break the deadlock among the council of thanes, and bring a new king to Thorbardin. Unfortunately, the blade is stolen, but when it turns up, only one dwarf is brave enough to go after it. Stanach was an orphan. He grew up like any other dwarf, but was lucky enough to be taught the basics of smithing. Without the blade, his teacher becomes depressed, and eventually mad. Stanach sets out to find the blade for both his teacher and just to restore it. Firstly, he meets Lavim, a stereotypical kender. Together they travel, eventually being joined by the human Kelida and the elf ranger Tyrol. They end up meeting one of the mystical Irda, who informs them of their quest. After many wrong turns, fights and misfortunes, they eventually make it back to Thorbardin, where the Theiwar thane is attempting to murder Hornfel, the hylar thane to gain power over the thanes so he can rule. After a long fight, the Theiwar thane is killed and the stormblade is restored to its rightful place. Unfortunately, Tyrol is mortally wounded in the process, and dies. As a mark of honor, they allow him to be buried in the garden of thanes (a great honor for dwarves, even more for an elf)
A prototypical Yatesian dreamer, John C. Wilder is a bored but successful salesman of advertising space, living in New York who seeks refuge from the disappointments of his life in alcohol and adultery. He breaks down during a distillers' convention. Lacking sleep and the worse for alcohol upon his return to New York, he threatens his family. His friend, Paul Borg, has him committed to the psychiatric ward of Bellevue Hospital in New York. Upon his release he seeks help from his family, psychiatrists, and AA meetings, all of whom he subsequently rejects. With the encouragement of a mistress, Pamela Hendricks, Wilder renews himself through their common love of movies and the prospect of making a film about his institutionalization. After a group of enthusiastic college students embrace his story and partially film his screenplay, Wilder leaves his family and job to move to Hollywood in the hopes of securing a deal that will complete and distribute the film. The loss of his mistress and the rejection he suffers from producers leads him even deeper into an abyss of paranoid alcoholic delusion. The novel ends with Wilder wandering the streets of Los Angeles, declaring himself to be Jesus Christ (mirroring a delusional incident in Yates' own life), and being recommitted to an institution.
After obtaining the rank of Lt. Col in the NorAm Marines, Jonat DeVrai resigns his commission after growing disenchanted with the realities of warfare for economic gains. Using his military benefits, DeVrai begins a new career and obtains an advanced degree and creates a more accurate model for measuring the effects of "prod-placement." DeVrai's practice for ethical, high caliber assessments brings him to the attention of the Centre for Societal Research, a generally non-partisian research group. The Centre commissions a study regarding potential abuses of "prod-placement" techniques in political campaigns. While the study is intended to be used by the leaders of some of the top Multis (companies), attempts on DeVrai's life and the murder of his sister and her husband, force DeVrai to risk his life in an effort to set things right. DeVrai receives help in the form of the self-aware Cy-droid Paula Anthane and the shadowy force behind Central Four. DeVrai has become a pawn on more than one chessboard. Will he have the chance to set things right? Will he be able to avenge the murder of his sister that left his niece and nephew orphans, or will the multiple plots to remove DeVrai from the board finally catch up to him?
The story is set simultaneously during the events of Tiberium Wars. Many game characters are either featured or mentioned such as Kane, Lieutenant Sandra Telfair, Gen. Jack Granger, and W3N reporter Cassandra Blair. The first chapter of the story involves a summit at the Philadelphia space station, with almost all of the top GDI directors and officials aboard, as well as Dr. Mobius, GDI's top scientist from the first Command & Conquer game. Nod annihilates the station, killing all of those on board, by firing a nuclear missile after disabling their defenses at Goddard Space Center. Part of the dialogue when Kane transmissions is broadcast to the world is also the end of the chapter. "Rejoice, children of Nod, the blood of your oppressors will flow..." The novel describes the actions of GDI's 22nd Infantry Division, led by Michael McNeil, who are decorated as heroes for their adventures, as well as describing the effects of Tiberium on the world with a trip to Atlanta by W3N reporter Annabella Wu. Atlanta is a "Yellow Zone" partially infested with Tiberium but still under GDI control. The story alternates between the experiences of Ricardo Vega and Annabella Wu during the conflict.
A playwright called Ashenden is recruited by Colonel R., a British Intelligence officer. He is sent to Switzerland where he becomes involved in a series of adventures. In one he accompanies a man called the Hairless Mexican to Italy, where a Greek agent of the Germans is to be assassinated. In another he must get an Italian dancer to induce her Indian lover, a German agent, to cross the border into Switzerland to see her, so that Ashenden can arrest him. # R. # A Domiciliary Visit # Miss King # The Hairless Mexican # The Dark Woman # The Greek # A Trip to Paris # Giulia Lazzari # Gustav # The Traitor # Behind the Scenes # His Excellency # The Flip of a Coin # A Chance Acquaintance # Love and Russian Literature # Mr. Harrington's Washing The chapters are collected in later collections under different titles, as below. It is unknown whether they were rewritten slightly from original publication. * "A Domiciliary Visit" & "Miss King" as Miss King * "The Hairless Mexican", "The Dark Woman", "The Greek" as The Hairless Mexican * "A Trip to Paris, "Giulia Lazzari" as Giulia Lazzari * "Gustav", "The Traitor" as The Traitor * "Behind the Scenes", "His Excellency", as His Excellency * "A Chance Acquaintance", "Love and Russian Literature", "Mr. Harrington's Washing" as Mr. Harrington's Washing
The hand-lettered text, done by the author's brother, tells the story of an elderly couple who realize that they are very lonely. The wife wants a cat to love, so her husband sets off in search of a beautiful one to bring home to her. After traveling far away from home, he finds a hillside covered in "Cats here, cats there, Cats and kittens everywhere. Hundreds of cats, thousands of cats, Millions and billions and trillions of cats..." This rhythmic phrase is repeated several other times throughout the story. The man wants to bring home the most beautiful of all the cats, but he's unable to decide. Each seems lovely, so he walks back home with all of the cats following him. His wife is dismayed when he arrives, realizing immediately what her husband overlooked: they won't be able to feed and care for billions and trillions of cats. The wife suggests letting the cats decide which one should stay with them, asking "Which one of you is the prettiest?" This question incites an enormous cat fight, frightening the old man and woman so that they ran back into the house. Soon, all is quiet outside. When they venture out, there is no sign of the cats: they'd apparently eaten each other up in their jealous fury. Then, the old man notices one skinny cat hiding in a patch of tall grass. It had survived because it didn't consider itself pretty, so the other cats hadn't attacked it. The couple
The main adversary in this book is Michael, “The Wind of Death” – first seen in ‘Rhapsody’ – now host to a F'dor, a fire demon. He has found out that Rhapsody also survived the destruction of Serendair and is coming for her. Achmed, King of Ylorc, is attempting to rebuild the Lightcatcher – an ancient device from Gwylliam’s Empire – inside the peak of Gurgus. He enlists the help of Theophila, a member of the Panjeri tribe, who are masters of stained glass. Meanwhile trouble comes to Achmed and Grunthor from the Raven's Guild in Yarim – the Guildmistress is determined to have revenge on the Bolg kingdom for destroying her foundry. Rhapsody and Ashe have decided to have a child together, but prophecies speak of trouble, and so they speak to Ashe’s aunt Manwyn, the Seer of the future, in an effort to discover whether harm will befall them. Soon after the child is conceived Rhapsody is abducted by Michael's men, who nearly kill her protector Anborn in the process. Ashe and Achmed, who still do not like each other much, team together to rescue her. During their search for Rhapsody they meet the legendary warrior McQuieth, Ashe's distant ancestor, who proves to be extremely helpful in the fight against F'dor.
The incubus Sebastian is the bastard child of a succubus and the wizard Koltak. Being an incubus has not made his life easy. Forced to flee every city or town he settled in, he has never known a home. Until one day, his cousin, 15-year-old Glorianna Belladonna, creates a landscape where demons can live, called the 'Den of Iniquity'. It is a 'carnal carnival' filled with gambling, drinking, prostitution and demons. Shocked by her actions and her ability to create a landscape, the wizards and Landscapers question her. She simply responds, "Even demons need a home." The wizards attempt to lock her into her own garden, but fail. She is then declared rogue. Meanwhile, Sebastian, living in the Den of Iniquity and ignorant of the sacrifices his cousin has made for him, begins to tire of the life he lives, finding simply having sex with women no longer interesting. When he first stumbled into the Den when he was a 15 year old boy, he and his first and foremost friend Teaser, another incubus, prowled around the Den, using their abilities to entertain themselves. This life no longer holds any appeal. He yearns for love - and it appears in the form of Lynnea. She is a catalyst whose "heart wish" (a strong wish deeply embedded within her) delivered her to the Den. Her arrival brings about 'opportunity and change'.
Elsha is a teenager living in a bleak, cold future where world-wide cloud cover has permanently blocked out the sun. Humans have split into two classes - the Chosen and the Quelled, of which Elsha is the latter. The Quelled are doomed to spend their lives in servitude to the Chosen, mining "firestones" - the only means of warmth on the planet. The Firelord is the leader of the Chosen, said to be a great and powerful man. A rebellious girl, Elsha causes trouble for herself - even going so far as being considered for execution - until she is met by a Chosen man named Amasai, Steward of the Firelord, and given the highest position available to a woman - Handmaiden to the Firelord. On her journeys with the Firelord, Elsha meets Teraj, later revealed to be the Firelord's son, with whom Elsha forms a romantic relationship. Elsha uses her unlikely position to fight the stigma and oppression of her people, eventually inheriting the title for herself after the Firelord's unexpected death and changing the course of the planet's history for the better. It is implied Elsha marries Teraj. *Out of Print*
When Kerin, youngest son of Evor the Clockmaker and brother of Jorian, ex-king of Xylar, commits an indescretion with Adeliza, a neighbor's daughter, he is packed off on a hasty quest to uncover the secret of an advanced clock escapement for the family firm. A pragmatic, cautious sort, he preps for his journey with a crash course in useful skills — swordsmanship and foreign tongues, of course, but also lying and burglary. He is hampered and sometimes aided by the sprite Belinka, commissioned by the calculating Adeliza to ensure Kerin's faithfulness. Kerin's goal takes him east across the Inner Sea, the Sea of Sikhon and the Eastern Ocean to the empire of Kuromon, where he is promised the secret in return for a magical fan lost centuries before. It has the property of making whatever it is waved at disappear without a trace. Along the way he must contend with a treacherous sea captain and his suspicious navigator, the duplicitous sorcerer Pwana, and the pirate crew of Malgo, who has a grudge against Kerin's family. A more pleasant complication is Nogiri, a princess of the island empire of Salimor, whom Kerin has liberated (much to the displeasure of Belinka) from the pirates. Kerin returns her to Salimor only to lose her to the nefarious designs of Pwana, and a dire fate from which she can only be preserved by a daring rescue — on roller skates! Finally Kuromon is reached and negotiations are concluded satisfactorily, but only at the cost
This autobiographical book tells Nasrin's story from birth to adolescence. The Bengali term Meyebela means "girlhood". The book has been banned in Bangladesh because "its contents might hurt the existing social system and religious sentiments of the people." The book is very frank about her father and mother. Her father is described by Nasrin as rude and tyrannical. Nasrin was also sexually exploited by two of her family elders (uncles). She also said: "When I was at the hospital (in Dhaka), I treated so many seven- or eight-year-old girls who were raped by their male relatives, some 50 or 60 years old. I treated them, and I remembered when I was raped." Nasrin has in this and in her other books written about women rights in Bangladesh: "Girls suffer, especially in Muslim countries," she said. "I could not go out and run in the fields. I was supposed to stay home to learn how to cook, to clean. Women are not treated as human beings. They are taught for centuries that they are slaves of men." http://www.villagevoice.com/news/0246,davis,39832,1.html
Married to Indihar, though from his perspective in name only, Marîd Audran gets invited to a reception at the palace of the amir of the city. Shaykh Mahali, the amir, thus wishes to end the rivalry between Friedlander Bey and Reda Abu Adil, two of the most powerful men in the city. Both Audran and Bey, or "Papa" as he's known in the Budayeen, become suspicious when their sworn enemy Abu Adil designates Audran as an officer of the "Jaish", an unofficial right-wing outfit working for Abu Adil. However, it is not until after the party that Abu Adil's scheme unfolds: Audran and Bey are put under arrest by Lieutenant Hajjar and charged with the murder of a police officer named Khalid Maxwell. They're sentenced on-the-spot into exile, never to return to the city under pain of death. Left to die amongst the burning sands of a vast desert, their luck finally turns as they are rescued by a Bedouin tribe of Bani Salim, allowing them to start planning the vengeance they'd exact upon Abu Adil and prove their innocence— if they ever make it back to the city alive.
The play revolves around the dysfunctional family consisting of single mother Beatrice and her two daughters, Ruth and Tillie, who try to cope with their abysmal status in life. The play is a lyrical drama, reminiscent of Tennessee Williams' style. Shy Matilda "Tillie" Hunsdorfer prepares her experiment, involving marigolds raised from seeds exposed to radioactivity, for the science fair. She is, however, constantly thwarted by her mother Beatrice, who is self-centered and abusive, and by her extroverted and unstable sister Ruth, who submits to her mother's will. Over the course of the play, Beatrice constantly tries to stamp out any opportunities Tillie has of succeeding, due to her own lack of success in life. As the play progresses, the paths of the three characters diverge: Tillie wins the science fair through perseverance; Ruth attempts to stand up to her mother but has a nervous collapse at the end of the play, and Beatrice—driven to the verge of insanity by her deep-seated enmity towards everyone—kills the girls' pet rabbit Peter and ends up wallowing in her own perceived insignificance. Despite this, Tillie (who is much like her project's deformed but beautiful and hardy marigolds) secretly continues to believe that everyone is valuable.
Angélique knew very well that she loved Dorante, but she didn't want to. Being the daughter of a marquis she didn't want to marry someone middle class however rich and well brought up he may be. She shared her feelings, not to her father, who looked upon this marriage with pleasure, but to Lisette her chambermaid, who, although speaking the dialect of her village, and the daughter of a simple tax lawyer was not less determined to not marry down. Dorante, as a test, said he had a partner to suggest to Angélique: a well educated young man, rich, esteemed in all aspects, but middle class. Angélique refused. When Dorante told her that he spoke of himself, Angélique was somewhat disconcerted, but persistent. The Marquis then offered his youngest daughter to Dorante. Angélique called for Dorante; she didn't want him to see her sister, she didn't want him to leave. At first Dorante looked at her astonished then tenderly. Angélique looked at him. He fell to her feet, she made him get up: pride had given up against love.
Amelia and her husband, Professor Radcliffe Emerson, return to Egypt for the 1894-95 season to excavate the ruined pyramids of Mazghunah, which pale in comparison to the nearby dig at Dahshoor – but that is all Emerson could get after annoying the Department of Antiquities. On this trip, the Emersons bring along their young son Walter (aka Ramses) and his cat Bastet, along with a sturdy footman to keep Ramses out of trouble. This is Ramses' first trip to Egypt, after studying and hearing about it for all his young life. :Ramses got off his donkey. Squatting, he began to sift through the debris...[He] held up an object that looked like a broken branch. "It is a femuw," he said in a trembling voice. "Excuse me, Mama - a femur, I meant to say." [...] :Ramses rose obediently. The warm breeze of the desert ruffled his hair. His eyes glowed with the fervor of a pilgrim who has finally reached the Holy City. (TMC, chapter 5) While in Cairo, Amelia hears rumors of a scrap of papyrus which no one will confess to owning, but which has the local antiquities dealers living in fear of the man who is after it. No sooner does the family settle in near their dig than they are paid a visit by a group of American missionaries who have set up shop nearby, then the rival archaeologist who did get permission to dig at Dahshoor, then a German noblewoman with more money than taste...and
70 years after the events of Rendezvous with Rama, a second Raman vessel enters our solar system. Its arrival is expected and an expedition is sent to unlock more of Rama's mysteries, but the crew are unprepared both for what they find and for the conflicts that arise between them. Rama II brings new characters into a new story and is mostly unrelated to the original and largely serves to set up its own sequels. It ends with three of the twelve astronauts stranded inside Rama as it travels out of the solar system, Nicole des Jardins Wakefield, Richard Wakefield and Michael O'Toole. Unlike Rendezvous with Rama, which depicted a utopian future and focused almost entirely on the hard science fiction elements regarding the scientific wonders of the alien spacecraft, Rama II and its sequels deconstruct Clarke's vision of human colonies throughout the solar system through a global economic crisis that forced their almost total deactivation. Then follows a very different storytelling that brings forward contemporary issues like abortion, racism, drug abuse and organized crime.
A psychiatric patient has lost his way and arrives at the country of Kappa. He is treated as a special guest and talks with Kappas of many occupations. Geeru, a radical capitalist, states that the unemployed labourers of Kappas are killed and their flesh is provided for food. The patient is astonished but Geeru argues that because the Japanese women in the poorest class are obliged to survive by prostitution, the patient's opposition is sentimental. Kappa's national characteristics are materialism and nihilistic realism. The babies of Kappa control their destiny. While in the womb, the fetus can refuse life as a Kappa, and be aborted. The Maggu, the sceptical philosopher Kappa committed suicide and appears as a ghost through the person of Tokku, a poet. Maggu is concerned about his fame after his death, although he admires the writers and philosophers who has died by suicide such as Heinrich von Kleist and Otto Weininger. At last the patient is due to return to the real human world, but muses that Kappa was clean and superior to human society and becomes a misanthrope.
In the book, environment, famine, overpopulation, climate changes, floods, tornadoes, hothouse effect (now commonly referred to as greenhouse effect), etc. are generally predicted to worsen and become acute by the end of the 20th century. Berlitz lists of doomsday years is long. He starts with the year 999, December 31 when many expected Jesus to return, and goes through a great many doomsday prophecies by scientists, prophets, astrologers and others. In chapter 8, he asks whether the world has ended before, mentioning Atlantis, an idea which he revisits later in his books The Mystery of Atlantis and Atlantis: The Lost Continent Revealed. Berlitz suggests that there may have been a flood, an idea which he explores further in his book The Lost Ship of Noah: In Search of the Ark at Ararat (1987) and in chapter 9 where he cites the tales of a great flood from the Bible and the Torah, Sumerian, Babylonian, Assyrian, Greek, Indian, Persian, Welsh, Norse, Lithuanian, Irish, Chinese, Aztec-Toltec, Maya records and Chibcha tales.
Anti-terrorist forces are put on alert when it is learned that the notorious international terrorist the Black Spirit plans to perform an attack on an unknown British target. Meanwhile, 30-something Raymond Ash is struggling to cope with the banality of his new life as an English teacher, having sold his video game shop and decided to settle down with his wife and new baby. While visiting Glasgow airport he sees his old friend Simon Darcourt who supposedly died when terrorists blew up an airliner a few years before. He has no idea that Darcourt is in reality the Black Spirit. Darcourt for his part sees Raymond and decides to settle an old score with him by incorporating him into his terrorist plot. Raymond ends up being abducted by Darcourt's terrorists and escaping, then finds himself aiding policewoman Angelique de Xavia in a valiant attempt to foil their plot, the two being the only people with a chance of reaching the site of the attack in time - the hydroelectric plant at Dubh Ardrain.
Marianne Pinhoe's family tries to keep their magic a secret. They don't want the "Big Man", or Chrestomanci, interfering, as he tends to do when people misuse magic. And the Pinhoes certainly are guilty of that. Gammer, the head of the Pinhoe clan, has ostensibly gone mad, but Marianne doesn't believe that she's completely 'round the twist. She's sure that Gammer's the one sending plagues to the Farleighs, a related clan that also wishes to stay out of the sights of the "Big Man". Until recently, the Farleighs and the Pinhoes had been working together, but it seems that Gammer has started a war, and it'll be hard to keep their operations under wraps for long. Meanwhile, up at the Castle, Cat acquires a horse. He also meets the man who was bootboy at the Castle when the current Chrestomanci was a lad, Jason, and helps him and his new wife choose a house. They finally settle on Woods House, Gammer's old place, and Marianne, while showing Cat around, gives him an old egg from the attic, an egg with strong "Don't Notice" spells placed on it. An egg that is sure to arouse the interest of the "Big Man" up at the castle – something the rest of the Pinhoe clan, and Gammer in particular, doesn't want at all.
Pel lives with his German girlfriend Ursula and their two children, and works in the IT department of a university library (or "Learning Centre"). The story begins with Pel receiving an odd call from his boss, TSR, who quizzes him about extradition treaties; within a week he has vanished without a trace, and Pel promoted to TSR's former position, "Computer Team Administration, Software Acquisition and Training Manager" (though, in addition to his own job). The story follows both Pel's home and work lives; at home, there are the arguments with Ursula over the search for a new home, after the latest burglary of their current home; defrosting the fridge during the moving preparations; Ursula terrifying the builders working on the repairs of the new house; a skiing accident, leaving Ursula with a torn ligament in her shoulder. At work, Pel finds that taking on TSR's job involves more than it seemed at first; he has to pay off student recruiters from the Pacific Ring, who happen to be members of The Triads; he has to take care of the details of the building of a new Learning Centre building, which involves hiding the fact that skeletons from an ancient burial ground have been illegally dumped from the site, and a dangerous neurotoxin to be buried under it. These details lead him to become closely involved with the permanently hung over Vice Chancellor of the university, which leads to his receiving another promotion, to Learning Centre Manager; the previous holder of
The events of Homeboyz takes place four to five years after the events in Hip Hop High School. The book's main character is 17-year-old Dixon Theodore Anderson, nicknamed Teddy. He is a smart teenager who is both a hacker and a bodybuilder. Teddy's entire neighborhood is overrun by gangsters and his sister, Tina Anderson, is killed in a crossfire. While the Anderson family mourns her death, Teddy goes to his car to seek vengeance. He is unsuccessful in getting revenge and is arrested. He then spends time in a California juvenile prison waiting for a judge to hear his case. During this time, Teddy is treated as if he was a gangster. He is set free, but is put under house arrest and is enrolled in a probation program. Teddy is forced to spend five days each week mentoring a kid named Micah. Teddy has difficulty tutoring Micah because he is wants to be a gangster. But through Micah, teddy is taught how to love someone and see how people can change. Also this book talks about when Teddy meets the person that killed his sister,and he wasn't from 0-1-0. He was a member of another rival gang. Teddy fought hard and he won but the guy was sent to jail and died there.
The book opens with Richard Bolitho arriving at an inn frequented by Midshipmen in Portsmouth. There he meets another midshipman Martyn Dancer. They are retrieved by a lieutenant from the Gorgon. The ship sails towards West Africa, where they encounter an empty Merchantman, the City of Athens. Dancer and Bolitho are sent aboard the ship, and discover that the ship has been pillaged and the crew killed. The officers soon deduce that the ship was raided by Pirates and Captain Conway announces that the Admiralty had dispatched them to investigate the disappearance of ships in the region. In company with the captured City of Athens, the Gorgon approaches a coastal fort surrounded by treacherous reefs and shoals. Upon approaching the fort, they see that two ships are in the nearby harbour, however the fort opens fire and destroys the City of Athens. The Gorgon withdraws and returns during the dark of the night to cut out the ship. Dancer and Bolitho are sent on the mission, commanded by the 4th lieutenant, Mr. Tregorren, who holds a grudge and mistreats Bolitho over Bolitho's prestigious heritage. They succeed at taking the ship, and also capture a Slave Dhow in the escape with the help of the Gorgon. The ships, under the guise at being members of the pilot fleet raid the castle from which the pirates had been using as a base.
The book told the story of a young Jewish doctor, who because of antisemitic pressures, seeks to escape his Jewishness by submitting himself to a series of violently painful medical procedures. The doctor has stereotypical Jewish features: black curly hair, oily skin, thick lips, and a large, hooked nose, an effeminate voice, has poor posture and is orthopedically impaired. He agrees to undergo a complex medical operation in order to free himself from his Jewishness. Ultimately, he arranges to have all his bones straightened out, has his hair dyed blonde, and gets his larynx altered to change his voice. He is placed in a bathtub and given a blood transfusion by pure Aryan virgins. Having been seemingly cured of his Jewishness, he weds a blonde German woman. However, just as he is about to deliver a speech at his wedding, his voice takes on a high pitch, as all his previous Jewish features resurface. He ultimately winds up as a gelinatous puddle on the floor, thus signifying the immutability of the Jew: a Jew is always a Jew, regardless of whatever attempts at assimilation he may undertake. The book incorporated all the elements of modern, racial antisemitism: the expression of desire on part of the Jew to escape his identity, the lengths to which he will go to transform himself, the pornographic quality of the affair (as exemplified by the Aryan virgins), and the impossibility of it all. It sought to illustrate that Jews cannot escape their race; if they
The novel described the Yacoubian Building as one of the most luxurious and prestigious apartment blocks in Cairo following its construction by Armenian businessman Hagop Yacoubian in 1934, with government ministers, wealthy manufacturers, and foreigners residing or working out of offices there. After the revolution in 1952, which overthrew King Farouk and gave power to Gamal Abdel Nasser, many of the rich foreigners, as well as native landowners and businessmen, who had lived at the Yacoubian fled the country. Each vacated apartment was then occupied by a military officer and his family, who were often of a more rural background and lower social caste than the previous residents. On the roof of the ten-story building are fifty small rooms (one for each apartment), no more than two meters by two meters in area, which were originally used as storage areas and not as living quarters for human beings, but after wealthy residents began moving from downtown Cairo to suburbs such as Medinet Nasr and El Mohandiseen in the 1970s, the rooms were gradually taken over by overwhelmingly poor migrants from the Egyptian countryside, arriving in Cairo in the hopes of finding employment. The rooftop community, effectively a slum neighborhood, is symbolic of the urbanization of Egypt and of the burgeoning population growth in its large cities in recent decades, especially among the poor and working classes.
Mary Lou Finney is less than excited about her assignment to keep a journal over the summer. She also has to read The Odyssey, which she often relates to her own story. Then her cousin Carl Ray comes to stay with her family, under the pretense of looking for a job, which he eventually finds at Mr. Furtz's hardware store. Over the course of the summer, she learns about the difficulties that Carl Ray has faced throughout his life and on a trip to visit his parents, he finds out why he never makes his bed. She also hangs out with her best friend Beth Ann and becomes Alex Cheevey's girlfriend. As Mary Lou's story unfolds, she examines both her struggles with her family and her own sense of self. Sharon Creech stated that the inspiration for this story was an occasion when, "I'd been living overseas (England and Switzerland) for about ten years, and I was sadly missing my family back in the States. I thought I'd write a story about normal family chaos and that's how this began, with me trying to remember what it was like growing up in my family. Writing the story was a way for me to feel as if my family were with me, right there in our little cottage in England.".
Conner is the perfect boy. He's handsome, has amazing grades, and is amazing at sports. His family seems like the poster family for the magazines. He and his sister are supposed to be perfect. His sister has achieved that status in the eyes of Connor's parents. However, when his parents' try to force him to live up to their impossible standards, Connor's only choice is to pull the trigger. Vanessa grew up in a broken family. Her father is overseas, her mother does anything to stop the hurt, and on top of it all Vanessa has to worry about watching after her little brother. When her Mother starts going crazy and talking to her "angel", Vanessa's only comfort is to put the blade to her wrist. Tony grew up in the streets mainly. His father abandoned him, while his mother hooks up with anybody. They leave their son all alone to deal with the hardships of life. Tony was sexually abused by one of his mother's boyfriends. Tony ended up killing the boyfriend. The only person that Tony could trust was his friend, Phillip, but when Phillip died, Tony's only decision was to swallow the pills. Three teens, three different stories, one death wish. Their lives will intersect at a psych hospital. Can they help each other deal with the pain of their previous lives? Most importantly, can they help themselves move beyond their personal demons? Or will the IMPULSE take control?
The Golden Notebook is the story of writer Anna Wulf, the four notebooks in which she keeps the record of her life, and her attempt to tie them all together in a fifth, gold-colored notebook. The book intersperses segments of an ostensibly realistic narrative of the lives of Molly and Anna, and their children, ex-husbands and lovers—entitled Free Women—with excerpts from Anna's four notebooks, coloured black (of Anna's experience in Southern Rhodesia, before and during WWII, which inspired her own bestselling novel), red (of her experience as a member of the Communist Party), yellow (an ongoing novel that is being written based on the painful ending of Anna's own love affair), and blue (Anna's personal journal where she records her memories, dreams, and emotional life). Each notebook is returned to four times, interspersed with episodes from Free Women, creating non-chronological, overlapping sections that interact with one another. This post-modernistic styling, with its space and room for "play" engaging the characters and readers, is among the most famous features of the book, although Lessing insisted that readers and reviewers pay attention to the serious themes in the novel.
When a bomb explodes on a baggage carousel at Heathrow Airport, killing his ex-wife, David Markham tries to unravel the mystery surrounding her seemingly pointless death. But with unresolved questions about himself, his job, and his loving but adulterous wife, he soon finds himself immersed in the deeper waters of middle class revolution. When a protest at a cat show turns ugly and he is beaten up by angry cat lovers, then arrested and tried, Markham enlists in the cause of the rebellious Chelseans - imagining he will uncover the persons and causes responsible for his ex's murder. Slowly, he succumbs to the call of subversion and gradually finds himself a terrorist functionary. Along the way we meet an assortment of wonderfully ballardian characters: Markham's wife, who continues to use her arm canes though her leg injuries from an accident with a tram have completely healed. A sociopathic, college film studies lecturer/terrorist cell leader who takes Markham for a lover; a troubled priest and his Chinese girlfriend; a former MI5 bombmaker turned revolutionary. And a kindly pediatrican cum terrorist mastermind. Ultimately, Markham learns the reasons behind his former wife's murder have a very different logic than he had imagined.
Leodan Akaran, ruler of the Known World, has inherited generations of apparent peace and prosperity, won ages ago by his ancestors. A widower of high intelligence, he presides over an empire called Acacia, after the idyllic island from which he rules. He dotes on his four children and hides from them the dark realities of traffic in drugs and human lives on which their prosperity depends. He hopes that he might change this, but powerful forces stand in his way. A deadly assassin sent from a race called the Mein, exiled long ago to an ice-locked stronghold in the frozen north, strikes at Leodan in the heart of Acacia while other enemies unleash surprise attacks across the empire. On his deathbed, Leodan puts into play a plan to allow his children to escape, each to their separate destiny. His children begin a quest to avenge their father's death and restore the Acacian empire–this time on the basis of universal freedom. The novel is notable for the complexity of Durham's imagined world, one in which political, economic, mythological and morally ambiguous forces all influence the fates of the ethnically and culturally diverse population. In some ways the novel uses familiar fantasy frameworks, but over the course of the novel many fantasy tropes are overturned or skewed in surprising ways. It is a fairly self-contained tale, but the author is at work on more volumes set in this world.
The protagonist and narrator is Ivan Smetski, a young Ukrainian-American linguist who specializes in Old Church Slavonic, a language from 10th-century Russia. In 1992, Ivan returns to his native town of Kiev to pursue additional graduate studies. While there he discovers the body of a woman, apparently sleeping in the woods. He awakens her with a kiss, and she tells him, in Old Church Slavonic, that she is Katerina, a princess of the kingdom of Taina. Transported back to the 10th century, Ivan follows Katerina back to Taina where he finds the Christian kingdom terrorized by the traditional Russian arch-villainess Baba Yaga. Ivan and Katerina marry and escape back to the 20th century to avoid the machinations of Baba Yaga, who has enslaved a god and laid claim to Taina's throne, and the druzhinnik Dimitri who covets the throne. Baba Yaga's magical powers, however, allow for her to follow Ivan and Katerina to modern times. Back in the Ukraine, Ivan discovers that his cousin is in reality the immortal god Mikola Mozhaiski. Returning to the United States, Ivan further discovers that his mother is a magic user, with the same powers as Katerina. After Katerina discovers Dimitri's plot through scrying, Ivan and Katerina return to Taina, deftly avoiding Baba Yaga who magically "skyjacks" their intended 747 back to the 10th century. Returning to Taina, Ivan and Katerina confront Dimitri, the enslaved god, and Baba Yaga. Though the Castle of Taina is destroyed, the two emerge victorious, and return to the
Set during Christmas 1183 at Henry II of England's castle in Chinon, Anjou, Angevin Empire, the play opens with the arrival of Henry's wife Eleanor of Aquitaine, whom he has had imprisoned since 1173. The story concerns the gamesmanship between Henry, Eleanor, their three surviving sons Richard, Geoffrey, and John, and their Christmas Court guest, the King of France, Philip II Augustus (), who was the son of Eleanor's ex-husband, Louis VII of France (by his third wife, Adelaide). Also involved is Philip's half-sister Alais, who has been at court since she was betrothed to Richard at age eight, but has since become Henry's mistress. The Lion in Winter is fictional and none of the dialogue and actions is historical; there was not a Christmas Court at Chinon in 1183. However, the events leading up to the story are generally accurate. There is no definitive evidence that Alais was Henry's mistress (although Richard later resisted marrying Alais on the basis of this claim). The real Henry had many mistresses (and several illegitimate children).
A small boy is left on his own in a flat. The boy answers a knocking on the front door of his high rise flat to find a man with no head standing on the doorstep. The man cannot speak, but the boy knows he is asking him for help. The boy apologises and, explaining that he cannot help him, closes the door and returns to playing games. The protagonist, Stark, a troubleshooter living in the Colour Neighbourhood, accepts a job from his friend, a high-ranking member of The Action Centre, Zenda Renn, and sets out to find senior Actioneer Fell Alkland, who appears to have gone missing under peculiar circumstances. Stark contacts another friend, a psychotic ganglord in the Red Neighbourhood named Ji, to assist him in tracking Alkland down, but something other than kidnapping is to blame for the old man's disappearance. Something that ties into Alkland's past, into The City itself. Stark is forced to confront both his past and a present which has become a living death, in a story of love lost and friendship betrayed. It takes him to places where dreams live, where they can come true, for better or for worse. Where they can kill you. In a world where past and future, reality and nightmare meet up and have a fistfight, Stark is the only man who can make the difference.
Though The End of Oil is not a chronological history of humanity's use of fossil fuels, Roberts begins by recounting how Thomas Newcomen, in 1712, presented the first large steam engine, and thus helped spark the Industrial Revolution. He then goes on to explain the problems that have since developed, or may develop in the future, from humanity's reliance on oil and its "geological siblings", coal, and natural gas. While there is a chapter on hydrogen as a possible alternative to oil (not as an energy source, but as an energy carrier), the book is not focused on any one solution to the problems it lays out. According to Roberts, oil faces three major dilemmas. Most importantly, all fossil fuels are by their very nature limited in supply; as far as oil is concerned, the resulting dilemma is best known as the question of peak oil. Further, much of the oil consumed by affluent countries such as the United States is extracted in countries that are rather unstable politically, such as some of the members of the OPEC. The oil trade is therefore prone to become intertwined with international relations, although the nature of this interplay is highly controversial, with some citing oil as a reason for conflicts such as the Iraq War and others denying such claims. Finally, since the burning of fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide that was previously locked in the ground, humanity's reliance on oil may contribute to global warming. As to the aims of the
A young girl called Lila wants to become a firework-maker, like her father Lalchand. Despite her talents, Lalchand believes this is an unsuitable job for girls. Lila disagrees, and journeys to get Royal Sulphur from Razvani the Fire-Fiend at Mount Merapi, as all aspirant firework-makers must do. The quest is nearly unsuccessful, as she does not have protection from the Fire-Fiend's flames or the Three Gifts to present to Razvani. However, her friends Hamlet, a talking white elephant, and Chulak, Hamlet's caretaker, manage to deliver the water of the Goddess of the Emerald Lake that will protect her. To Lila's surprise, Razvani recognizes her as a firework maker who has brought the Three Gifts, despite Lila being unaware of what the Three Gifts are. Upon her return home, she learns that Lalchand has been imprisoned for the disappearance of Hamlet. To save his life, Lila and Lalchand must win the upcoming competition for the Firework Festival against other extremely talented firework makers. Upon their victory, Lalchand explains to his daughter that she does possess the Three Gifts: rather than tangible objects, they are talent, courage, and luck, all of which she has. She has talent, having worked with her father at firework-making for many years; courage, for having undertaken the journey; and good fortune, which lies in having loyal friends, Chulak and Hamlet.
Candidia Maria Smith-Foster, an eleven-year-old girl, is unaware that she's a Homo post hominem, mankind's next evolutionary step. Hominems have higher IQs, they're stronger, faster, more resistant to illness and trauma, and have quicker reflexes. Their eyesight, hearing, and sense of smell are superior as well. By the time the narrative opens, Candy has acquired a high school education, some college, and learned karate, having achieved her Fifth Degree Black Belt, from her neighbor, 73-year-old Soo Kim McDivot, who she is led to believe is merely a retired schoolteacher. McDivot, whom she calls "Teacher", is actually the discoverer of the H. post hominem species, and has identified and continues to mentor and lead a group of them, the AAs. As part of her karate training, she has learned to release her hysterical strength, which permits brief bursts of nearly superhuman activity. With international relations rapidly deteriorating, Candy's father, publicly a small-town pathologist but secretly a government biowarfare expert, is called to Washington. Candy remains at home. The following day a worldwide attack, featuring a bionuclear plague, wipes out virtually all of humanity (i.e., Homo sapiens). With pet bird Terry, a Hyacinthine macaw, her "lifelong retarded, adopted twin brother," who tends to "parrot" Candy's words even before she speaks, she survives the attack in the shelter beneath their house. Emerging three months later, she learns of her genetic heritage and sets off to search for others of her kind. First the hunt turns up "Adam," a cheeky, irrepressibly punning, multitalented 13-year-old
Tad Hawkins is 15 years old and lives in the fictional Pennsylvania mining town of Markle. After his mother died in childbirth, he was taken in by his overbearing aunt, who treats him as an unpaid servant, existing only to be bossed around and humiliated by Mr Jackson, the lodger, and Esther, the hired help. Tad's life is changed when he gets caught up in a crowd on their way to see a travelling elephant show which has just arrived in town. After witnessing the "miracle cure" of a young crippled girl by the elephant keeper, he spots Esther and Mr Jackson in the crowd and hides in the elephant's trailer. Before he can escape, Khush, the elephant, is loaded into the trailer and Tad is on his way to another town. When Tad is discovered by Michael Keenan, the elephant keeper, he discovers that the cripple who was cured in Markle is in fact Keenan's younger daughter, Cissie. Keenan offers Tad a job looking after Khush to keep him from exposing the scam. Tad takes to life with Khush and the Keenans. However, Tad is not the only person to have discovered the scam. Mr Jackson and Esther are on the Keenans' tail. A train crash kills Keenan and his eldest daughter, Olivia, on the way to Pittsburgh. Mr Jackson arrives, brandishing papers to prove that Keenan sold Khush to him for $500. Cissie, the only surviving Keenan, insists that the papers were faked and that Khush belongs to
Dug, a Mundane, is transported in to the magic land of Xanth when he plays a computer game introduced to him by his friend for a bet. The game consists of the player having a companion, who is usually a well known Xanth character, and being led through the magical world of Xanth, defeating challenges along the way and eventually winning the ultimate prize of a magic talent. The catch with the companions is that there is a chance that your companion is false, meaning that at the point where you might finally win, the companion will cause your ultimate downfall. The game also has a way of becoming 3D to the player, and, if the player believes in magic, eventually real. Dug, being a mundane boy of sixteen, picks Nada Naga as his partner, because of her beauty. Nada Naga begins to lead Dug in the world of Xanth, at first trying to convince him that the magical world is real, but giving up after realizing that Dug stubbornly refuses to believe in magic. Dug travels to the Isthmus village, where he learns the town is being controlled under a horrible censorship. He sets out to destroy the ship. After defeating the censorship, he is kicked out of the game twice, once only temporarily from trying to look at Nada's panties, the second time for good after being defeated by Com Pewter. He comes back to the game and picks Nada to be his partner again but fails to
9 year old Karl Lejon has found out that he is going to die. His adored big brother, 13 year old Jonatan, calms him down and starts telling him about life after death. In the afterlife, all men will go to a land on the other side of the stars, known as Nangijala, where they're still in "the campfires and storytelling times". But Karl is not happy; it could still be over 90 years until Jonatan joins him there. Jonatan assures Karl that time is different in Nangijala and that 90 years will only feel like a few days to Karl. Some time later a fire spreads throughout their home. Jonatan rescues his little brother by carrying him on his back and jumping out the window, but is fatally injured in the fall. During Jonathan's funeral, the priest saints him "Jonathan Lionheart" to tribute his courageous act. Karl is left alone, and starts to wonder if the story about Nangijala is really true. A white pigeon appears one night on his window sill, and Karl interprets it as a confirmation that it is. Two months after his brother Jonatan, Karl dies of his illness. Right before he dies, he leaves a message for his mother: "Don't cry mother, we'll see each other again in Nangijala". Immediately after his death he finds himself standing outside a small cottage. He is no longer sick, and runs down to a river, where his brother is sitting and fishing. Jonatan tells him that they
The narrator inexplicably finds himself in a grim and joyless city, the "grey town", which is either hell or purgatory depending on how long one stays there. He eventually finds a bus for those who desire an excursion to some other place (and which eventually turns out to be the foothills of heaven). He enters the bus and converses with his fellow passengers as they travel. When the bus reaches its destination, the passengers on the bus &mdash; including the narrator &mdash; are gradually revealed to be ghosts. Although the country is the most beautiful they have ever seen, every feature of the landscape (including streams of water and blades of grass) is unyieldingly solid compared to themselves: it causes them immense pain to walk on the grass, and even a single leaf is far too heavy for any to lift. Shining figures, men and women whom they have known on earth, come to meet them, and to urge them to repent and enter heaven proper. They promise that as the ghosts travel onward and upward, they will become more solid and thus feel less and less discomfort. These figures, called "spirits" to distinguish them from the ghosts, offer to assist them in the journey toward the mountains and the sunrise. Almost all of the ghosts choose to return instead to the grey town, giving various reasons and excuses. Much of the interest of the book lies in the recognition it awakens of the plausibility and familiarity, along with the
The events of Novel Two leave the Alignment exposed & removed from the US Government, an ancient Celestial Globe in the hands of the Pentagon, a Terrestrial one in the hands of the Vatican, Conrad still searching for links to Atlantis & Serena the new leader of a Catholic sect with ties to the remaining Alignment leaders in Europe. When Conrad discovers the remains of a German sub containing a powerful Atlantean weapon that uses water as fuel for an explosion, he is headed off by Alignment member & Russian Petrol Tycoon, Roman "Midas" Midasovitch. This lures Conrad into another conflict with the Alignment that draws him deeper into the Alignment than ever before. Meanwhile, Serena Seghetti tries to enter the Alignment's ranks in order to gain their trust & expose their remaining leaders to the world- all she has to do is deliver both globes to the Castle of the Grand Master in time for the Summit Meeting, where the Alignment will convene in secret for the first time in centuries- but Conrad's reappearance screws up her plans, as well as his when he sacrifices his own life to keep her safe & uncover the Alignment's plans for Armagheddon. The Novel leaves off with both Conrad & Serena presumable dead after failing to stop a controlled explosion beneath Jeruselem that was meant to start a holy war, yet it is revealed that both have survived & wish to continue their lives in secret- together, away from the Alignment, the
The heroine, Bryony, has the gift of telepathy, and is able to communicate subliminally with a man she regards as her lover, but whose identity she is unsure of. She knows that he is a blood relative, and assumes him to be one of her three male cousins, twins Emory and James, and the younger Francis. Bryony returns to the UK having received a telepathic message and discovers that her father has been hit by a car, and has died after speaking some mysterious phrases. She remains puzzled about the identity of her telepathic contact. Her initial preference is for James, but she gradually realises that the twins are plotting to steal her inheritance, and that her secret lover is a long-standing friend to whom she had not known she was related. Bryony gradually solves her father's puzzles, some of which include a maze depicted on the family's arms, the motto being "Touch not the cat". In the book's climax, the twins attempt to murder Bryony and flood the family gardens, so they can sell them for redevelopment. They are stopped by Bryony's lover.
A Dark Night's Passing is divided into four parts. Its protagonist is Tokitō Kensaku, a young, aspiring writer who have a dark secret in his family's closet. As a young boy he is sent to live with his paternal grandfather and his mistress Oei. His grandfather and his mother dies soon after from illness. In Part One, Kensaku, who resides in Tokyo with Oei, goes with his friends to visit geishas (as well as prostitutes) day in and day out, and finds it difficult to maintain a disciplined lifestyle of writing. He develops interest in a few geishas and bargirls, but his interest comes to nothing. Part Two concerns Kensaku's trip to the seaside town of Onomichi. Kensaku goes there to do some serious writing, but instead find himself proposing to Oei, about twenty years his senior, in letters while asking his elder brother Nobuyuki to act as their intermediary. In their correspondences Nobuyuki tells him a dark secret: Kensaku was conceived as the result of a brief affair between their mother and their paternal grandfather. During this affair their father was studying in Germany, and he chose to forgive his late mother over it. This explains the somewhat cold attitude their father had always with him. Oei turns down Kensaku's proposal, and Kensaku returns to Tokyo. In Part Three Kensaku visits Kyoto, Japan's ancient capital, and decides to make the place his home. He meets a young lady there, Naoko, of whom he takes a fancy, and writes to
The novel is set on the planet Pandora which is famous for its animated biosphere. Humans have built a base on it that serves as a biological laboratory and a hunting resort. The base is located at the top of 2&nbsp;km high crag on a continent otherwise covered by forest. Biologists do not understand most of the processes occurring in the forest. Humans hunt in the forest for sport in the face of serious dangers. The novel is divided into two parts: life in the base and life in the forest. The director of the base is Paul Gnedykh. He is responsible for overall safety, supply, and communication with Earth. He replaced the previous director after several deaths occurred on the base. One of the deaths was the biologist Mikhail "Athos" Sidorov, Gnedykh's childhood friend. Some biologists claimed they saw people in the forest, but nobody took them seriously (partially because such visions were seen when the bioblocade of the observer was weakened or expired). The forest is rapidly changing, such that maps completely obsolete in two years. Some trees move from place to place, while others show signs of feeling the "pain" of other trees. Leonid Gorbovsky stays on Pandora believing that the forest is dangerous. He wants to be near when the forest "starts acting" to be able to influence the process. Gorbovsky is upset because the base staff are being negligent about the forest, not taking the forest seriously enough. One day a female hunter and gamekeeper
In this sequel in the Fudge' series, Fudge takes up an obsessive and greedy love for money and his family decides to take him to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington to show how money is made hoping that his obsession would stop there. That plan doesn't work, and instead they meet up with their long-lost cousins, the Howie Hatchers. There is Howie, a park ranger who resides in Hawaii and is traveling the country, his pregnant wife Eudora, their perfect, slightly overindulged twin daughters Flora and Fauna who are sometimes nicknamed the "Natural Beauties," and the "Heavenly Hatchers," and last but not least, three-year-old Farley Drexel Hatcher, which is also Fudge's real name. The boys are left alone with their cousins and find out that the Natural Beauties have been trying to find a nickname for Farley and try to use Fudge's own nickname. He tries to save his nickname from being taken by the Natural Beauties for Farley's own use by yelling and gets bitten in the leg. After the two are broken up, Peter suggests the natural beauties call Farley "Mini-Fudge," but when the other Fudge disagrees, the name is changed to Mini-Farley. Peter is having a rough time throughout this because his best friend Jimmy has left Manhattan and moved far off to the SoHo section of New York City. He still goes to the same school but Peter feels lonely. Fudge begins to start hating Mini, and the Natural Beauties then annoy Peter
High school comedy: Just for fun, young student Bud Hooper asks his idol, Hollywood actress Gale Joy, to come to Philadelphia to be his partner at a dance. His school is Winsocki Military Academy. Jack Haggerty, the actress' manager in Hollywood, sees an opportunity for special publicity and advises Gale to accept Bud's invitation. The appearance of the famous star at Winsocki is greeted with excitement, and Bud abandons his own girl Helen Schlessinger to accompany Gale to the ball. Out of jealousy, Helen damages Gale's sash while she is dancing, which causes a riot. Others begin to tear off pieces of Gale's clothes as well, but only to gain souvenirs from the famous star. As the school regards the incident as a scandal, Bud is now in danger of being expelled from school, as he has caused all this. Gale Joy and Jack Haggerty try to avoid furore and immediately go back to Hollywood. After Bud and Helen settle their arguments and any other problems are solved, everything at Winsocki goes back to normal.
The story of The London Eye Mystery by Siobhan Dowd begins when Aunt Gloria visits Ted's family home with her son Salim, a half-Indian boy who is roughly a year older than Ted, a boy with Asperger syndrome. Many people with Asperger syndrome have interests of intense focus. Ted has a fascination with the weather, while Salim appears to have a similar condition, involving a fascination with large buildings, although it is never confirmed whether Salim also has Asperger syndrome. Salim says that he "loves the large structures in London" and seems especially captivated by the old Barracks building, which is on the same street as Ted's home. The next day, Salim, Ted and his older sister Kat decide to take a ride on the London Eye, bemoaning the hour-long queues. When a stranger approaches them with a ticket for the Eye, claiming that he is afraid of small spaces and cannot ride on the Eye, they decide to give the ticket to Salim as he has never had a ride on the Eye before. Salim climbs into the Eye at 11:32, waving at his cousins as the Eye ascends. Half an hour later, Salim's capsule lands. Kat and Ted start forward to collect Salim, but cannot find him. When Aunt Gloria and Ted's mother find out, they are extremely angry at Kat for allowing Salim to take a ticket from a stranger. That evening, the two siblings examine Salim's camera and decide to have it developed in case the
The story begins in the voice of the Jewess Mariamne as a child living a privileged life in her widowed father Josephus’ home in Jerusalem. Also living with them is her father’s ward, Salome, an Egyptian, the daughter of a deceased fellow merchant. Both girls are overseen by a body servant named Tata. Mariamne has only just recovered from a life-threatening illness during which it seems she might have experienced altered states of consciousness. When she revives, she is gifted (or cursed) with unexpected voiced divination. Raised like sisters and indulged by a fond father with books and lessons usually only accorded boys, Mariamne and Salome possess a thirst for knowledge, both secular and magical, that is forbidden to females. Through their devoted personal slave, they also learn worldly experience far beyond anything Josephus, a member of the elite Jewish Sanhedrin, would approve of them knowing. When Mariamne unwittingly exposes her gift of prophesy in front of her father and his houseguest, a merchant named Ananias, Josephus immediately sends Mariamne to her room, but Ananias is intrigued. That moment of exposure changes not only the life of Mariamne, but the lives of all involved. Within months, Josephus, misunderstanding an exchange he sees between Salome and his houseguest, banishes Salome and the houseguest from his home, and then, only hours later, Tata and Mariamne. His daughter is to go into her uncle’s strict Jewish household, where there are no books. Unable to bear the loss of Salome and then of her
Tiara Kent lights several candles in her room, and turns off her security system. She drinks a special "potion", and prepares for her mystery man to arrive. The next morning, Lt. Eve Dallas, and Delia Peabody are called to Tiara's apartment. The man she invited bit her in the neck, and drank her blood as she bled out, and Peabody recognises the murder as one perpetrated by a vampire. Eve and Peabody talk to Tiara's friend, Daffy Wheates, who informs them Tiara was going to an underground vampire club, called Bloodbath, and had in fact met a man. Eve heads to see Iris Francine, and then Dr. Charlotte Mira, but is accompanied by her billionaire husband Roarke, who is curious himself about the vampire murder. Iris is unable to tell Eve much of anything, and Dr. Mira is only able to say that the killer believes he is a vampire, that he tried to turn Tiara into one, and he will continue trying until he gets it right. The tox report reveals that the "potion" Tiara drunk, was a mixture of hallucinogens, tranqs, date rape drugs, and human blood. Detective Ian McNab is called into to help with the investigation, not because of what he can contribute, but because he thinks vampires are cool. They head off to the club, and Eve discovers Peabody is now wearing a cross, to ward of vampires. Eve gets irritated, and makes Peabody repeat "Vampires don't exist" over and over again. Dallas, Roarke, Peabody,
Euripides's play follows the fates of the women of Troy after their city has been sacked, their husbands killed, and as their remaining families are about to be taken away as slaves. However, it begins first with the gods Athena and Poseidon discussing ways to punish the Greek armies because they condoned Ajax the Lesser for dragging Cassandra, the eldest daughter of King Priam and Queen Hecuba, away from Apollo's temple. (From some ancient Greek paintings many people believe Ajax raped Cassandra, and the verb that Euripides used to describe Ajax's "taking" of Cassandra can also be translated as rape, but it does not directly say that in this story) What follows shows how much the Trojan women have suffered as their grief is compounded when the Greeks dole out additional deaths and divide their shares of women. The Greek herald Talthybius arrives to tell the dethroned queen Hecuba what will befall her and her children. Hecuba will be taken away with the Greek general Odysseus, and Cassandra is destined to become the conquering general Agamemnon's concubine. Cassandra, who has been driven partially mad due to a curse by which she can see the future but will never be believed when she warns others, is morbidly delighted by this news: she sees that when they arrive in Argos, her new master's embittered wife Clytemnestra will kill both her and her new master. However, because of the curse, no one understands this response, and Cassandra is carried off. The widowed princess
The stories and brief synopses in the book are as follows: # Haunted Flight by George Frangoulis - A boy, Nick, wakes up to find he is alone in the world; after searching in vain, it is revealed that he is in fact dead. # Some Pencils are Smarter than People by Erwin A. Steinkamp - A young man purchases a pencil from a street vendor, and discovers, to his delight, that when he takes tests with the pencil, it always writes down the correct answers. # The New Friend by D.J. Gregoirio - A young man discovers his classmate is an Extraterrestrial. # The Mysterious Rescue at Sea - Author Unknown - A ship becomes stuck to an iceberg, and is only found by another ship due to a case of Astral Projection. # Space Mission 21 by E.M. Deloff - Astronauts land on a strange planet with an odd, glowing, golden orb in the sky, and inhabited by beings with only two arms which ride in vehicles with the words D-U-N-E B-U-G-G-Y on the side. # The Case of the Strange TV Channel by Jaqueline W. Mcmann - A young man, watching a television broadcast with his family of the first unmanned probe to land on Pluto, ends up having his consciousness transmitted to the landing site, leaving his body behind in his living room, dead. # Be Tough! by Tom Gunning - A young High School Football player, stuck in his burning home after rescuing his family,
The prologue is a letter from Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, "To my lawyer, Saxonberg", accompanied by a drawing of her writing at her office desk. It is the cover letter for the 158&#8209;page narrative, which provides background for changes to her last will and testament. Eleven-year-old Claudia Kincaid decides to run away from home comfortably, because she thinks her parents do not appreciate her and she doesn't like discomfort. She chooses the Metropolitan Museum of Art (the Met) in New York City, with nine-year-old brother Jamie as companion partly because he has saved all his money. With one unused adult fare on the commuter train and one very long walk, they get there at no cost when admission is free. Early chapters show how Claudia and Jamie settle in at the Met: hiding in the bathroom at closing time from staff on circuit to see that all the patrons have departed; blending with school groups on tour, to learn more about the museum exhibits; bathing in the fountain, whose "wishing coins" provide income; sleeping in an antique bed. A new exhibit draws sensational crowds and fascinates the children: the marble statue of an angel, sculptor unknown but suspected to be Michelangelo. It was purchased at auction from Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, a collector who recently closed her showcase Manhattan residence. They research it on site and at the Donnell Library, and give their conclusion to the museum staff anonymously. After learning they have been naive, the children spend the last
The frame story of the poem, as set out in the 858 lines of Middle English which make up the general prologue, is of a religious pilgrimage. The narrator, "Geoffrey Chaucer", is in The Tabard in Southwark, where he meets a group of "sundry folk" who are all on the way to Canterbury, the site of the shrine of Saint Thomas Beckett. The setting is April, and the prologue starts by singing the praises of that month whose rains and warm western wind restore life and fertility to the earth and its inhabitants. This abundance of life, the narrator says, prompts people to go on pilgrimages; in England, the goal of such pilgrimages is the shrine of Thomas Beckett. The narrator falls in with a group of pilgrims, and the largest part of the prologue is taken up by a description of them; Chaucer seeks to describe their 'condition', their 'array', and their social 'degree': :To telle yow al the condicioun, :Of ech of hem, so as it semed me, :And whiche they weren, and of what degree, :And eek in what array that they were inne, :And at a knyght than wol I first bigynne. The pilgrims include a knight, his son a squire, the knight's yeoman, a prioress accompanied by a second nun and the nun's priest, a monk, a friar, a merchant, a clerk, a sergeant of law, a franklin, a haberdasher, a carpenter, a weaver, a dyer, a tapestry weaver, a cook, a shipman, a doctor
Hercule Poirot leaves the office of his dentist, Morley, after an appointment, and notices the arrival of Mabelle Sainsbury Seale. He returns to her the shiny buckle that has fallen from her shoe. Later, he hears from Inspector Japp that Morley has died of a gunshot. Between Poirot’s appointment and Morley’s death there were only three patients: Banker Alistair Blunt, Mabelle, and a Greek blackmailer named Amberiotis. The presence of a man thought essential to the country’s economic survival, the banker, Blunt, ensures Japp’s involvement in the case. Amberiotis dies of an overdose of anaesthetic and it is thought that the dentist has killed himself after realising the accident for which he had been responsible. The movements of people at the dental surgery are inconclusive. Morley’s partner, Reilly, is a rogue but seems to have no motive. Morley’s secretary had been called away by a fake telegram. Her boyfriend, Frank Carter, had a weak motive given that Morley had attempted to dissuade her from seeing him. Also present at the surgery was Howard Raikes, a prickly left-wing activist violently opposed to Blunt but enamoured of his niece. There is too little evidence for Poirot to construct an alternative hypothesis, but he senses that the story is not complete. When Mabelle goes missing, his fears are realised. A search for her is conducted, and some time later her body is apparently found in a sealed chest in the apartment of Mrs. Albert Chapman, who has herself disappeared. The corpse’s face has
Pemberton, a penniless graduate of Oxford, takes a job to tutor Morgan Moreen, aged eleven, a brilliant and somewhat cynical member of a wandering American family. His mother and father refuse to pay Pemberton as they jump their bills from one hotel to another in Europe. Pemberton grows to dislike all the Moreens except Morgan, including older brother Ulick and sisters Paula and Amy. Morgan, who is afflicted with heart trouble, advises Pemberton to escape his family's baleful influence. But Pemberton stays on because he has come to love and admire his pupil and he hopes for at least some eventual payment. Pemberton finally has to take another tutoring job in London simply to make ends meet. He is summoned back to Paris, though, by a telegram from the Moreens that says Morgan has fallen ill. It turns out that Morgan is healthy enough, though the fatal day arrives when his family is evicted from their hotel for nonpayment. Morgan's parents beg Pemberton to take their son away with him while they try to find some money. Morgan is ecstatic at the prospect of leaving with Pemberton, but the tutor hesitates. Morgan suddenly collapses with a heart attack and dies. In the story's ironic final note, James says that Morgan's father takes his son's death with the perfect manner of "a man of the world."
A young man, Dan, takes a young woman to the hospital after she has been hit by a taxi; they flirt as they wait for the doctor to attend to her bloodied knee. Larry, a doctor in dermatology, inspects her leg briefly and leaves. Dan and the young woman introduce themselves—he is Daniel Woolf, an obituary writer and failed writer who tells her how he and his colleagues use euphemisms humorously in their work in obituaries. Upon the girl's prompting, he says his euphemism would be "reserved" and hers would be "disarming." She is Alice Ayres, a self-described waif who has a scar along her leg which is shaped like a question mark. Wanting him to spend the rest of the day with her, she calls his editor and tells his boss that he's sick and can't come in to work. More than a year later, Dan is on the verge of publishing a book based on Alice's past as a stripper, and Anna is taking his photograph for publicity. Dan falls in love with Anna, though he is in a relationship with Alice, having left his former girlfriend for her. He begs Anna to see him again, and she rejects him. Alice overhears his conversation with Anna. She asks Anna to take her photo, and when Dan has left, confronts her; Anna insists she is "not a thief" and snaps a photo of a tear-stricken Alice. Six months later, Dan and Larry meet in an adult chat room. Dan
While walking in the woods near the small town of Haven, Maine; Roberta (Bobbi) Anderson, a writer of Wild West-themed fiction, stumbles upon a metal object which turns out to be a protrusion of a long-buried alien spacecraft. Once exposed, the spacecraft begins releasing an invisible, odorless gas into the atmosphere which gradually transforms people into beings similar to the aliens who populated the spacecraft. The transformation, or "becoming," provides them with a limited form of genius which makes them very inventive, but does not provide any philosophical or ethical insight. Instead, it provokes psychotic violence (on the part of people like Becka Paulson, who kills her adulterous husband by fatally rewiring their TV, killing herself in the process) and the disappearance of a young boy, David Brown, whose older brother Hilly teleports him to another planet, referred to as Altair 4 by the Havenites. The book's central protagonist is a poet and friend of Bobbi Anderson, named James Eric Gardner, who goes by the nickname "Gard". He is a fundamentally decent person with left-leaning, liberal sensibilities who is apparently immune to the ship's effects because of a steel plate in his head, a souvenir of a teenage skiing accident. Unfortunately, Gard is also an alcoholic, prone to binges which result in violent outbursts followed by lengthy blackouts. His relationship with Bobbi deteriorates as the novel progresses. She is almost totally overcome by the euphoria of "becoming" one with the spacecraft, but Gard increasingly sees her health worsen and her
The novel presents the story from the perspective of Desiderio, a bureau member in the main city currently under the attack of Doctor Hoffman’s desire machines. With these machines, Doctor Hoffman expands the dimensions of time and space, allowing ever-changing mirages to inhabit the same dimension as the living. Desiderio, though indifferent to the haunting apparitions, finds himself visited nightly by a glass woman, the manifestation of Albertina, Hoffman’s daughter and Desiderio’s lover-to-be. Unlike Desiderio, many people go crazy in response to the apparitions, and the city, severed from communication with the outside world, becomes a place of rampant insanity and crime, thereby prompting a state of emergency. Under the command of the Minister of Determination, Desiderio embarks on an undercover journey to find and assassinate Doctor Hoffman. On his way to the first stop on his journey, Desiderio encounters Doctor Hoffman’s former physics professor who now works as blind peep-show proprietor. During the story, Desiderio visits the sexualized exhibits of the peep show a number of times to find that they bear uncanny resemblance to the events that occur within his own life. Upon reaching his first destination, the Mayor’s Office of town S., Desiderio finds that the Mayor has disappeared. Thereupon he visits the Mayor’s home where he has sex with the Mayor’s somnambulist daughter, Mary Anne, while she remains unconscious. When Mary Anne turns up dead, dirty members of the Determination Police charge Desiderio, but he escapes. From there on, Desiderio finds himself involved in a number
The novel is set in early 20th century India in the estate of the Bengali zamindar Nikhil. He marries Bimala, a woman who is both of a lower status and of a darker complexion, which is contradictory to his family traditions. Their love is idyllic and both are dedicated to one another until the appearance of his friend and radical revolutionist, Sandip. Sandip, a passionate and active man, is a contradiction to the peace-loving and somewhat passive Nikhil. His charismatic speech, support of the Swadeshi movement, and a renewed appreciation of everything Indian while denying everything British garnered support from local natives across the province. After hearing Sandip speak at a rally, Bimala insists that Sandip visit Nikhil’s estate. While visiting, Sandip's influential nature easily attracts the innocent and unsuspecting Bimala, and she suggests he make his headquarters at their house. Once empowered by the inside world, knowing only her husband and home, she becomes engaged with the outside world, taking part in the Swadeshi movement by working with Sandip. As the novel develops, Bimala is drawn to Sandip’s passion and the attraction between the two becomes inevitable, producing a love triangle. She begins to question her marriage with Nikhil and finds in Sandip what she has always sought after in a man: zeal, ambition, and a hint of danger. She begins to help Sandip by stealing money from Nikhil’s treasury, convinced that if it is not equally his money as well as hers, then it belongs to the country.
The novel is narrated in first person by numerous narrators and divided into three parts. The first section, "Mexicans Lost in Mexico", is told by 17-year-old aspiring poet, Juan García Madero. It centers on his admittance to a roving gang of poets who refer to themselves as the Visceral Realists. He drops out of university and travels around Mexico City, becoming increasingly involved with the adherents of Visceral Realism, although he remains uncertain about Visceral Realism. The book's second section, "The Savage Detectives," comprises nearly two-thirds of the novel's total length. The section is a polyphonic narrative which features more than forty narrators and spans twenty years, from 1976 to 1996. It consists of interviews with a variety of characters from locations around North America, Europe, and the Middle East, all of whom have come into contact with the founding leaders of the Visceral Realists, Ulises Lima and Arturo Belano. Each narrator has his or her own opinion of the two, although the consensus is that they are drifters and literary elitists whose behavior often leaves a bitter taste in the mouths of those they meet. We learn that the two spent some years in Europe, frequenting bars and camp sites, and generally living a bohemian lifestyle. Lima, the more introverted of the two, serves a short sentence in an Israeli prison, while Belano challenges a literary critic to an absurd sword fight on a Spanish beach. The third section of the book, "The Deserts of Sonora", is again narrated
Blankets chronicles Craig Thompson's adolescence and young adulthood, his childhood relationship with his younger brother, and the conflicts he experiences regarding his Christianity and his first love. Though written chronologically, Thompson uses flashbacks as a literary and artistic device in order to parallel young adult experience with past childhood experience. Major themes of the work include: first love, child and adult sexuality, spirituality, sibling relationships, and coming of age. Thompson begins by describing his relationship with his brother during their childhoods in Wisconsin. Though their relationship is marked by typical sibling conflict, they are also very close, and their rapport helps them deal with verbal and physical abuse from their overly religious parents, and sexual harassment and abuse from bullies at school. During his preteen years, Thompson finds himself a misfit because of his physical appearance and home life. Through his teen years, he continues to find it hard to fit in with his peers, but at a Bible camp one winter, he comes to associate with a group of teens he feels he will fit in with, which includes Raina, a beautiful and interesting girl who captivates him. The two become inseparable and arrange to spend two weeks together at Raina’s home in Michigan. He meets Raina’s family, consisting of her separated parents, her adopted siblings Ben and Laura, her biological sister, and her infant niece Sarah. Because Laura is mentally retarded and Sarah is often ignored by her own parents, Raina feels the responsibility to take care of
Jack Holloway, a sunstone miner, lives a solitary life in a wilderness area of planet Zarathustra. The planet is basically "owned" by the Chartered Zarathustra Corporation (under Victor Grego), which installed basic services and colonial outposts initially, and now reaps the benefits of new discoveries, such as the valuable sunstones. One day, Holloway returns to his little shack to discover a tiny humanoid, covered in golden fur. The little creature has armed itself with a chisel from his workbench, but is peaceful and mostly unafraid. The miner gives the "little fuzzy" (as he calls it) some Extee-Three, a kind of canned emergency ration cake, and the Fuzzy devours it greedily. It is soon apparent that the creature is highly intelligent, and he soon brings his family band to join "Pappy Jack" at the shack. Victor Grego soon tries to intervene, claiming that the Fuzzies are just animals, not sapients. If they were ruled sapient, the entire planet would be declared a protected aboriginal zone, and the Chartered Zarathustra Company would lose its exclusive rights to the resources there. Leonard Kellogg, one of Grego's staff, kills a Fuzzy and this leads to a court case which hinges on whether the Fuzzies are animals or sapients. After much discussion of what it means to be "sapient" (speech and fire use being one definition), the matter goes to court. In the midst of the proceedings, the Terran Navy commander reveals that his people have been studying Fuzzies, and that they can indeed speak.
Taking place almost a year after the first novel, the plot picks up with Third Echelon attempting to search and bring to justice the members of The Shop, an international arms dealing ring that played a large part in the first novel. While Sam Fisher is working to collect information on The Shop in Ukraine and Russia, Third Echelon is continuing its investigation into how the Shop had previously managed to gain the identity of a number of Splinter Cells and murder them, another plot element from the first book. However, when a German scientist named Jeinsen, who had defected to the United States from East Germany long ago, goes missing and then reappears dead in Hong Kong, heads begin to turn. Jeinsen had developed a new submarine vehicle for the United States Navy, that could theoretically carry a nuclear weapon. Sam Fisher is sent to learn why the scientist was in Hong Kong and who killed him; it is suspected that a local group of Triads named the Lucky Dragons had involvement. What Third Echelon does not yet realize is that Jeinsen, the Lucky Dragons, The Shop, and a traitor inside their own government are all part of a much larger picture involving a rogue Chinese general named Lan Tun, with ambitions to invade and conquer Taiwan. With Sam Fisher not even aware that he is the world's only hope of stopping an international crisis, he has to balance his job and a new romantic relationship with his Krav
The protagonist, an Istanbul lawyer named Galip, finds one day that his wife Rüya (the name means "dream" in Turkish) has mysteriously left him with very little explanation. He wanders around the city looking for his clues to her whereabouts. He suspects that his wife has taken up with her half-brother, a columnist for Milliyet named Celal, and it happens that he is also missing. The story of Galip's search is interspersed with reprints of Celal's columns, which are lengthy, highly literate meditations on the city and its history. Galip thinks that by living as Celal he can figure out how Celal thinks and locate both him and his wife, so he takes up residence in Celal's apartment, wearing his clothes and eventually writing his column. Galip starts getting mysterious phone calls from one of Celal's obsessed fans, who displays an astonishing familiarity with the columnist's writings. After Galip's columns under Celal's name start to take the form of impassioned pleas to Rüya, a woman from Celal's past misinterprets the articles and calls Galip, thinking they are actually Celal's attempts to win her back. It turns out that Celal and the woman had had an affair, and the fan who is calling Galip is the woman's jealous husband. In an eerie twist, it turns out that the husband has been following Galip around Istanbul in an attempt to find Celal through him, accounting for Galip's frequent apprehension that he is being watched. Galip finally agrees to meet both of them
The story begins with Turnatt, an evil tyrant hawk and lord of Fortress Glooming, watching the construction of his fortress. Farther in the forest of Stone-Run are two tribes: the Bluewingle tribe of the blue jays and the Sunrise tribe of the cardinals, which are at war with each other, each accusing the other of stealing their eggs and food, not knowing that this is actually the work of Turnatt. A member of the Bluewingle tribe, a female blue jay named Aska, meets a robin named Miltin, a slave at Fortress Glooming , who warns her of Turnatt. Aska leaves and tells the two tribes of Turnatt. The groups make amends in time for the Bright Moon Festival, during which the Flying Willowleaf Theater arrive and help celebrate by telling the legend of Swordbird, a giant dove-like bird of peace with magical powers. The celebration is cut short when a group of Turnatt's soldiers attack, attempting to capture and enslave the two tribes and the members of the Flying Willowleaf Theater. The tribes manage to defeat the soldiers and decide to summon Swordbird, thinking that he is the only one with the power to defeat Turnatt, using his Leasorn Sword. The only problem is that Swordbird can only be summoned by a song and one of the Leasorn Gems, which are said to be crystallized tears of the Great Spirit. There are only seven Leasorn Gems in the world, with an eighth one in Swordbird's blade. All hope seems lost
During one of the periodic disagreements Wolfe has with Archie, a young woman with a suitcase rings Wolfe's doorbell. Wolfe is busy in the plant rooms, so she meets with Archie but refuses to identify herself. She asks to rent a room and remain incommunicado at the brownstone for a week. So as to annoy Wolfe, Archie grants her request, contingent on Wolfe's approval, and locks her and her suitcase into a third floor bedroom. After Wolfe returns to the office, Archie fills Wolfe in. As expected, Wolfe not only refuses to grant the young woman's request but tells Archie to put her out immediately. Archie gets Wolfe to allow her to remain for dinner, which she eats upstairs. After dinner, a lawyer named Perry Helmar arrives at the brownstone, without an appointment. He wants to hire Wolfe for $10,000 to find one Priscilla Eads: Helmar is her guardian and she has disappeared. Helmar needs to locate her before her 25th birthday, which is one week away. Archie immediately suspects that she's upstairs and, asking Helmar for her photograph, confirms his suspicion and surreptitiously alerts Wolfe. Wolfe shoos Helmar without committing himself to the job, and finally speaks with Miss Eads. He gives her the choice of renting the room for one week for $10,000 – the amount he would forego if he turns Helmar down – or leaving the brownstone immediately – in that case, Wolfe will accept Helmar's job but will give her until the next morning before
The story begins with a group of SPARTAN-IIIs being deployed to a Covenant fleet refueling depot in the year 2545. The soldiers destroy the facility, but all save two of the three hundred SPARTANs are killed. The narrative then moves back to 2531, where SPARTAN-IIs are deployed against human insurrectionists; though the team is almost captured, the timely intervention of Kurt-051 allows the team to complete their mission. Meanwhile, Colonel James Ackerson meets with the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI). Ackerson announces his plan to create a new breed of SPARTANs which retains much of the supersoldiers' effectiveness, without the high price tag of the SPARTAN-II program. These SPARTAN-IIIs are trained by Franklin Mendez, as well as Kurt-051. With his death staged by ONI, Kurt-051 is placed in full charge of SPARTAN-III training, under the name and rank of Lieutenant Kurt Ambrose. The SPARTAN-III project is carried out on a secret ONI planet named Onyx, where there is also an archaeological excavation of ancient Forerunner ruins in an area known as "Zone 67". When a company of SPARTAN-IIIs goes missing in Zone 67, it is declared off-limits to all personnel. Like the SPARTAN-IIs, the SPARTAN-III candidates undergo radical cybernetic and biological enhancements and are outfitted with special armor to increase their abilities. The first SPARTAN-III company proves highly successful, but is wiped out when ordered to destroy a Covenant orbital shipyard in 2537. Shaken by the massacre of his troops, Kurt improves the training regimen for his next batch of
Gwen, a Canadian, is visiting her cousin, Findabhair (finn-ah-veer), in Ireland. The two, who keep regular correspondence, share a deep love of Irish mythology. Since their youth, they have tried to find a doorway to another world called Faerieland. Now sixteen, they travel to Tara, without telling their parents, the ancient seat of the High Kings in Ireland in search of adventure. While they are there, the cousins challenge an ancient law by sleeping in a fairy mound. That night the King of Faeries, Finvara, comes to take them away. Since he is King of Dreams, he comes to them in their sleep and asks them to come with him. Findabhair says yes, but Gwen refuses. Therefore, since he is bound by an ancient law, the King only takes Findabhair, leaving Gwen to wake up wondering about her cousin's safety. Gwen decides to rescue her cousin from her fate, only to find she is happy. Gwen does not want her to stay with the faeries because they are immortal, partying teenagers. As Gwen tries to continuously find the Faeries, which is hard for the King is hindering her, she meets many good friends, including a middle-aged businessman, a farm girl, a king (who becomes her boyfriend) of an island, called Island Island, and even befriends the second in command of the Faeries, Midir. When she finally catches up with the faeries fast pace, she learns that either her cousin or her must be the sacrifice to an evil ancient creature
Jake spends a day having strange flashbacks of himself in a rainforest, which leaves him disturbed. That evening, after watching a boxing match with his brother and father, he leaves for a grocery store, where Tobias has discovered something has crashed and the high-ranking yeerks are trying to hide something. The other Animorphs join them, and together they infiltrate the store in fly morph. Cassie overhears Chapman saying that it was a Yeerk bug fighter. After Ax manages to reconfigure the ship's controls, the Animorphs escape, pursued by Chapman and the other Yeerks. They plan to fly the spacecraft to Washington, in order to convince the American government that Earth is under attack by extraterrestrials. When Ax discovers that the fighter's technology to keep human radar from seeing it is broken, they are intercepted by two U.S. Air Force F-16 fighter jets, however, Cassie notices that they are over the Red Sea in the Middle East - far from their intended destination. Flying above the atmosphere, they are picked up by Visser Three's Blade ship sensors. The Animorphs, knowing they can't escape, try to fire on the Visser's vessel. Both Jake and the Blade ship fire their Dracon beams at the same time, and, coincidentally, their projectiles intersect, and both ships crash. The kids wake up in their wrecked Bug fighter. They look around, noticing that they've crash-landed in a rainforest. They assume they're in the Amazon rainforest, but are also disturbed by the fact that it is the middle
*Section 1, “Something in the Air”, begins with a day-by-day account of the anthrax letter attacks in Florida and Washington, DC, for the period 2 to 15 October 2001. Robert Stevens, a photo retoucher for the tabloid The Sun was a victim and US Senator Tom Daschle was an intended victim. The reactions of the FBI, the CDC and the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) are detailed. *Section 2, “The Dreaming Demon”, looks back to an outbreak of smallpox at St Walburga Hospital in Meschede, Germany. The successful efforts organized by local public health authorities and the WHO -- including a textbook example of ring vaccination containment -- are described. *Section 3, “To Bhola Island”, describes the variety and evolution of poxviruses and the history of smallpox in particular. The story of the SEP (Smallpox Eradication Program, referred to throughout as “the Eradication”), led by DA Henderson and others is recounted. The more personal story of physician, counterculture figure, and future virtual community pioneer Lawrence Brilliant is told as his Indian guru, Neem Karoli Baba exhorts him in 1970 to join the SEP and “go eradicate smallpox”. (Brilliant ended up fighting the outbreak at the Tatanagar Railway Station in Bihar. Finally, the Maximum Containment Facility (MCF) of the CDC in Atlanta is described. *Section 4, “The Other Side of the Moon”, begins with an account of the 1989 defection to the UK of Vladimir Pasechnik, the first Soviet bioweaponeer to flee to the West. Pasechnik described
The book is divided into two parts. The first attempts a complete diagnosis of the totality of modern capitalist civilization, moving through what the Invisible Committee identify as the "seven circles" of alienation: "self, social relations, work, the economy, urbanity, the environment, and to close civilization". The latter part of the book begins to offer a prescription for revolutionary struggle based on the formation of communes, or affinity group-style units, in an underground network that will build its forces outside of mainstream politics, and attack in moments of crisis – political, social, environmental – to push towards anti-capitalist revolution. The insurrection envisioned by the Invisible Committee will revolve around "the local appropriation of power by the people, of the physical blocking of the economy and of the annihilation of police forces". The book points to the late 2000s financial crisis, and environmental degradation as symptoms of capitalism's decline. Also discussed are the Argentine economic crisis (1999-2002) and the piquetero movement which emerged from it, the 2005 riots and 2006 student protests in France, the 2006 Oaxaca protests and the grassroots relief work in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina as examples of breakdown in the modern social order which can give rise to partial insurrectionary situations.
Councilman Golan Trevize, historian Janov Pelorat, and Blissenobiarella of the planet Gaia (all of whom were introduced in Foundation's Edge) set out on a journey to find humanity's ancestral planet &mdash; Earth. The purpose of the journey is to settle Trevize's doubt with his decision at the end of Foundation's Edge to embrace the all-encompassing supermind of Galaxia. First, they journey to Comporellon, which claims to be the oldest currently-inhabited planet in the galaxy. Although many other planets make that claim, Comporellon has a very long history with which to back it up. Upon arrival, they are imprisoned, but negotiate their way out. While there, they find the coordinates of three Spacer planets. Since the Spacers were the first colonists from Earth back in the ancient days of space travel, it is surmised that their planets would be fairly close to Earth. The first Spacer planet they visit is Aurora, where Trevize is nearly killed by a pack of wild dogs, presumed to be the descendants of household pets long since reverted to wolf-like savagery. They escape when Bliss manipulates the dogs' emotions to psychologically compel a retreat, while Trevize uses his neuronic whip on them. Next, they go to Solaria, where they find that the Solarians — who have survived the Spacer-Settler conflicts by clever retreat detailed in Asimov's novel Robots and Empire — have engineered themselves into self-reproducing hermaphrodite beings, who have remained generally intolerant of human physical presence or contact. They have also given themselves a natural
: Relevant to today’s war-torn world, The Palace of Illusions takes us back to the time of the Indian epic The Mahabharat—a time that is half-history, half-myth, and wholly magical. Through her narrator Panchaali, the wife of the legendary five Pandavas brothers, Divakaruni gives us a rare feminist interpretation of an epic story. : The novel traces Panchaali’s life, beginning with her magical birth in fire as the daughter of a king before following her spirited balancing act as a woman with five husbands who have been cheated out of their father’s kingdom. Panchaali is swept into their quest to reclaim their birthright, remaining at the brothers’ sides through years of exile and a terrible civil war. Meanwhile, we never lose sight of her stratagems to take over control of her household from her mother-in-law, her complicated friendship with the enigmatic Krishna, or her secret attraction to the mysterious man who is her husband’s most dangerous enemy. Panchaali is a fiery female voice in a world of warriors, gods, and ever-manipulating hands of fate.Love can touch the human heart at any moment of time it happens to some and all.Draupadi was even made of flesh and bones with a human heart which experienced this feeling for Arjuna. Mere a toy in the ruthless handS of fate she had to accept four husbands and perform her duties dutifully.A tale of vision,submission, patience,sacrifice,pleasure, sorrows and punishment,the novel is a journey of a woman...someway or other which is a journey of each and
The action starts in Sacramento in 1867. The Cascabels are a French family of circus artists who spent several years touring the United States and plan to return home. Their savings get stolen so the family cannot afford the ship ticket. Instead, César Cascabel decides to travel overland, via Alaska and Bering Straits, through Siberia and Central Russia with their horse drawn Carriage, the Belle-Roulotte (the Fair Rambler). They don't expect dangers to happen. On their way, they rescue at the Alaskan border, with the help of native girl Kayette, a Russian political fugitive, count Narkine, whom they bring along so that he can see again his father in Russia. Count Narkine adopts Kayette as his daughter. In Sitka, the group witnesses the transfer of Alaska to the United States. On their way from Port Clarence the travellers unfortunately end up on a floating iceberg that drifts to the Lyakhovsky Islands in Arctic Ocean. There they are captured by the natives. Other troubles, including political ones, occur but Cascabels manage to get through Ural to Perm and then, easily, to France. An animated TV series inspired by the book was produced in 2001 in France. <gallery> Image:'César Cascabel' by George Roux 03.jpg|Map of route through Alaska Image:'César Cascabel' by George Roux 39.jpg|Map of route through Russia </gallery>
A Romance of Two Worlds starts with a young heroine, in first person, telling her story of a debilitating illnesses that includes depression and thoughts of suicide. Her doctor is unable to help her and sends her off on a holiday where she meets a mystical character by the name of Raffello Cellini, a famous Italian artist. Cellini offers her a strange potion which immediately puts her into a tranquil slumber, in which she experiences divine visions. Upon wakening, she craves more. Later, she meets her guardian angel named Heliobas, the hero of the story, who whisks her through infinite solar systems faster than a shooting star while human spirits fly by like gossamer silk. He shares the truth of religion and the secret of human destiny, but still she longs for more. She comes to understand God as pure light and pure love, but it's not enough that she should see and hear these things from the touch of an angel. She wants to master this ability on her own and seeks a oneness with God through a series of meditative disciplines while locked away in a monastery.
The book picks up where the previous one left off. A Spackle army marches on New Prentisstown from one direction, and the forces of the Answer from the other direction. Mayor Prentiss has been freed by Todd to help defend the city, whilst Viola is with the Answer and the scout ship, in hopes of acquiring additional aid. The Mayor assembles his army and orders attacks on the Spackle army at the waterfall near the city. The Spackle, however, while outgunned, are thousands in number, and their weaponry has evolved since the first war thirteen years prior. While keeping the bows and arrows, a new weapon that unleashes white 'sticky' fire is mounted on the back of their bullock -like creatures, labelled ‘battlemores’ by the settlers. This, along with another weapon - white sticks that shoot a mixture of organic chemicals - easily beat back the Mayor's first wave. Todd is nearly obliterated by the fire weapon, but uses his Noise in the same way he used it against the Mayor to incapacitate the rider of the battlemore. A second wave of soldiers, this time utilising artillery to cover them, are able to send the Spackle back in retreat. Meanwhile, Viola finds Mistress Coyle with the scout ship, which has landed at the base of the demolished communications tower. Two friends from the settler convoy, Simone and Bradley have been sent to look for Viola, and are shocked at the state she, and the settlement, is in. Mistress Coyle, at
Arturo Bandini is a struggling writer living in a residential hotel in Bunker Hill, a rundown section of Downtown Los Angeles. Living off the zest of oranges, he unconsciously creates a picture of Los Angeles as a modern dystopia during the Great Depression era. His published short story "The Little Dog Laughed" impresses no one in his seedy boarding house except for one 14-year-old girl. Destitute, he wanders into the Columbia Buffet where he meets Camilla Lopez, a waitress. Bandini falls in love with Lopez, who is herself in love with co-worker Sam. Sam despises Camilla, telling Bandini if he wants to win over Camilla, he has to treat her poorly. Bandini struggles with his own poverty, his Catholic guilt, and with the his love for an unstable and deteriorating Camilla. Camilla is eventually admitted to a mental hospital, and moved to a second one, before escaping. Bandini looks for her, only finding her as she awaits for him in his apartment. He decides to take her away from Los Angeles, and arranges to live in a house on the beach. He buys her a little dog and they go to the new place. He leaves her there, to get his belongings from his Los Angeles hotel room. When he returns, she's gone. He tracks her down to the desert home of Sam, who is ill and dying. Before Bandini arrives, Sam has thrown Camilla out and she wanders into the desert. Bandini looks for her with an agonizing fear
In Hunting Mister Heartbreak, Raban sets off from the Port of Liverpool on board the 56,000 ton container ship Atlantic Conveyor, following in the footsteps of the first emigrants to America ("Having arrived in Liverpool, I took ship for the New World.") His meandering journey takes him to New York City, whose inhabitants he divides into the Street People - poor New Yorkers who have to face the daily threat of poverty and mugging - and the Air People - rich New Yorkers who rely on elevators to keep them off street level. He leaves New York in distaste and proceeds in his hired car down to the Deep South, choosing to lie up for a time as a temporary resident of Guntersville, Alabama, a town which he immediately takes a liking to on one of his stopovers. He decides to devote some time to meeting the residents and absorbing the local lifestyle in his rented lakeside cabin in the company of Gypsy, an old black lab bitch on loan to scare off the anonymous caller who keeps on making threatening calls in the middle of the night. He then makes his way up to Seattle and rents a room in the Josephinum Residence. From here, he makes forays into the city and comes across some of the Korean immigrants who have struggled to carve out a new life for themselves in America. The books ends with Raban's search for the end of America in the Florida Keys, "the Land
1 - ROAD TO NOWHERE Ignatz Zwakh, former escort of assassin Primavera Bobinski, is tracked down in Thailand by the half-robotic Pikadon Twins, with a demand from Primavera's half-robot boss Madame Kito that Ignatz return to the Big Weird to work with Primavera. Primavera is a Lilim - a vampiric living dead girl. 2 - WINE AND ROSES Ignatz returns to Nana, Bangkok, and is reunited with Primavera. They go to a restaurant that uses gynoids to mimic the English vogue of killing Lilim. The Cartier automata were invented by a Dr Toxicophilous with robotic consciousness that harnessed 'quantum magic', and this quantum-mechanical seat of consciousness is situated in the womb of their descendents, the Lilim. The pair are in the restaurant on a job from Madame Kito, but while Primavera is engaged in assassinating one of Kito's rivals Ignatz is rendered unconscious. 3 - BEATA BEATRIX Ignatz and Primavera, now captured and rendered unconscious with a special girdle around her umbilicus, are taken by Jack Morgenstern to the American Embassy, where they are locked up. 4 - BLACK SPRING Jack Morgenstern reveals that the British government want Primavera and Ignatz returned to them, and Kito has betrayed them to the Americans. Morgenstern questions Ignatz regarding the amount of Lilim escapees from the supposedly quarantined London, but gets no response to his theory that one of the surviving original Cartier dolls called Titania is organising the breakouts. Primavera uses her quantum magic to telepathically induce her guard to release her
Guy Fletcher is an actor who overhears a builder telling a joke in his local pub about his mother (although very few people know that he is her son), a famous and much loved actress called Selina Moore, who died in a plane accident in France. The joke was "Why is Selina Moore like Ferrero Rocher? Because they both came out of France in a box." This was originally a real joke about Princess Diana's death, a fact which is mentioned in the book. The next day he wonders where jokes come from and, despite being discouraged by his agent Sylvie, goes on a mission to track down the joke. On the way, he meets a variety of people, most importantly a woman called Sally, who he falls in love with. After investigating various dead-ends and multiple paths that the joke has followed, he is noticed by a mysterious company, led by a man called Rupert Liddy, who has a perfect memory. This company then attempt to stop Guy by using characters from jokes (e.g. an Englishman, Irishman and Scotsman), and stereotypes of character groups. Eventually, they frame him for his neighbor's murder, at which point Guy goes into hiding. He goes back to Sally, believing her to be the last chance he has of finding out what was going on. However, when he gets there, her house is blown up. Sally herself is not in, but her mother, who has elephantiasis, is. Sally decides to go with Guy to
Lucas Corso, a mercenary book-dealer, specializes in acquiring rare and valuable editions for anonymous buyers and other book dealers. Corso visits the narrator, Boris Balkan, to get his opinion on the authenticity of a manuscript he has acquired, apparently a previously unknown The Three Musketeers chapter called The Anjou Wine. Corso then meets with the owner of the manuscript, his occasional friend and fellow bibliophile, Flavio La Ponte. La Ponte was given the manuscript by its previous owner, Enrique Taillefer, immediately prior to his suicide. Corso and La Ponte talk about eccentric book-collector Varo Borja. In Madrid, Corso visits the beautiful widow of Taillefer, Liana Taillefer, who is intelligent and manipulative. She seems curious about The Anjou Wine and skeptical that Corso's possession of the manuscript is legitimate. On his way out, Corso sees a sinister man with a scar driving a Jaguar. Corso goes to Toledo to visit the very successful Varo Borja, who shows him a very rare book called The Book of the Nine Doors, which purportedly contains a formula for summoning the devil. The author, Aristide Torchia, printed it in 1666 and was subsequently burned at the stake by the Inquisition, along with most of the copies of the book. Borja's book is one of only three remaining copies in existence. Borja believes that only one copy is legitimate, and the other two (including his own copy) are elaborate forgeries. After showing him his vast collection of occult books, Borja then gives Corso an odd but
The book begins with Tally, the protagonist, as a Pretty debating what to wear to a bash. While attending the bash at which she is to be voted into the "Crims" clique, she is followed by someone who appears to be a "Special", a member of Special Circumstances. Tally can only remember her adventures as an Ugly in brief, disconnected bits —because, there are lesions on all the pretties brains. She is surprised to discover that the person stalking her is Croy, an old friend of hers from the Smoke. He has something for her, he tells her, but she must search for it later. She agrees, bemused by his repellent ugliness, including his big pores and tangled hair – all the imperfections that the surgery to become a Pretty transforms into beauty. Tally returns to her care-free life as a pretty. Her peace is disrupted when Zane, who is the leader of the Crims, asks her about David, whom she loved while she lived in the Smoke. Zane had once known Croy and had been determined to escape to the Smoke before his surgery. He regrets that he didn't go into the wilderness then. Zane is eager to accompany Tally in finding the object Croy has hidden for her. They face strenuous, dangerous physical challenges in order to locate the item, which is accompanied by a letter from Tally to herself, written before she went under the knife. The letter explained to her future self why she had become
Ralph has befriended a young boy named Ryan, the son of the inn's new maid. Ryan has given Ralph the full name of "Ralph S. Mouse," the middle initial standing for "Smart." (The name is not seen in the previous two books.) Meanwhile, Ralph becomes agitated at his family. Forced by his parents to let numerous younger siblings and cousins ride his motorcycle, which is beginning to wear out due to their careless treatment and also worried that their droppings on the floor will result in anti-mouse retaliation by the hotel staff, he asks Ryan to take him to school, where he plans to hide and live out the rest of his life. Ralph is discovered by Ryan's classmates, who adopt him as a class pet and decide to see how smart he is by building a maze for him to run through. All this time Ryan is having difficulties with an aggressive boy named Brad from his class. Brad accidentally breaks Ralph's motorcycle, and Ralph blames Ryan and runs away to hide in the school. However, Ralph also confronts Brad for breaking his motorcycle, and Brad, realizing that Ralph can talk, offers to set things right for him and Ryan. Ryan and Brad discover that they have much in common and become friends. Ryan reclaims Ralph and brings him home on the school bus on the day that his new friend comes with him to visit at the inn. Brad also atones for his destruction of Ralph's treasured motorcycle
The book starts where Exile left off, with Ben returning to Jacen aboard the Sith Meditation Sphere he found on Ziost. The novel follows Jacen as he manipulates politics, introducing a new law that allows him to rewrite other laws. Using this and Cal Omas' betrayal to the Galactic Alliance as leverage, he and Admiral Niathal stage a bloodless coup, arresting Omas and installing themselves as joint Chiefs of State. At the same time, Jacen sends Ben to assassinate Dur Gejjen, throwing the Corellian-led Confederation into chaos. Meanwhile, Boba Fett and Mirta Gev are still in search of a cure to Fett's illness after finding Kad Skirata, the son of a clone. In exchange for the promise of making the Mandalorians a united people, he cures Boba, giving him another thirty or so years to live. Ben overhears a conversation between Lumiya and Jacen and, horrified, confesses all to his mother, Mara Jade Skywalker. Mara, livid with Jacen for attempting to turn Ben to the dark side, sets out to kill him. This backfires, however, as Jacen kills Mara as his final sacrifice. This sacrifice kills Ben's love for Jacen, making the prophecy complete. Thinking that Lumiya killed Mara, Luke hunts her down and kills her. Ben then reveals that Mara's killer could not have been Lumiya, since Ben was with her at the time. At the end of the book, Jacen Solo assumes his Sith name: Darth Caedus.
Apart from a prologue following the formation of the Boer nationalist group Broederbond in 1918, the story takes place in 1992. The plot follows two parallel patterns, one during late apartheid South Africa where incumbent president F.W. de Klerk, leader of the Afrikaner minority which is on the brink of losing power to the African majority under the leadership of the ANC, about to end 44 years of suppression by the Broederbond rule. Simultaneously, detective chief inspector Kurt Wallander is investigating a case of a missing female Methodist real-estate agent outside Ystad. Upon the eventual recovery of her body, as well as the discovery of a black cut-off finger at the crime scene, detective Wallander realizes the case has deep roots in the history and current development in South Africa, where an extremist cell of the Broederbond is about to orchestrate the assassination of Nelson Mandela, wishing to plunge the country into a long and devastating civil war. Mankell, who himself is deeply interested in questions concerning South Africa and its history and who resides in the country part-time, released the book in 1993 during the reign of the National Party and the Afrikaner rule.
The story is set in the town of, and in the areas surrounding, Bradley, Massachusetts. A Vampire Lord, Tch'muchgar, is magically imprisoned in isolation at the bottom of the town reservoir. The townsfolk performs rituals at the annual The Sad Festival] of Vampires to maintain the bonds holding Tch'muchgar prisoner. Early in the book the young hero, Chris, witnesses a vampiress being lynched]. Soon after, he starts to feel a strange sensation — a growing thirst for blood. Chris later notices that his friend Tom is casting a reflection on the water of the reservoir but Chris himself has no reflection. He realizes that he must be suffering from vampirism. Chris is afraid to tell anyone, even his friends, because vampires are killed immediately upon being discovered. Chris is soon confronted by a mysterious person dressed in black, who introduces himself as Chet the Celestial Being. Chet says that he serves the Forces of Light, and that he can cure Chris of his vampirism. But first Chet must place a holy object, The Arm of Moriator, with Tch'muchgar. Once activated, the Arm cannot be moved or deactivated by evil beings. Chet explains that if Tch'muchgar tries to escape from his prison, the Arm will cause him to become trapped between worlds, just like "opening an elevator between floors". Chet leaves for two weeks to retrieve the Arm. Meanwhile, Chris's vampirism grows at a steady rate. He starts sleeping during the day and staying awake at night. He drinks warm water
It is the 27th century. The culture featured in the novel is based on the culture portrayed in the last chapter of Accelerando, "Survivor" (full chapter here). Humanity has spread throughout the galaxy using the wormhole technology copied from the alien routers, forming a plethora of societies and 'polities'. Robin, a human male, is recovering from a memory excision process in a rehabilitation centre. Though he remembers nothing of his past life(s), he suspects that he lived through traumatic times as a participant in the series of wars that raged many years before. Suspecting that he has been targeted for assassination by persons unknown, he agrees to sign-up with a radical, isolated social experiment that will attempt to recreate the forgotten "Dark Ages", the late 20th and early 21st centuries. On being transferred to the polity in which the program is being held, he discovers that he has been given the body of a woman, Reeve. As the experiment unfolds, she begins to suspect that all is not what it seems, and that the founders of the experiment are engaged in a very sinister conspiracy. Slowly, she realises that her role is not as clear-cut as she originally thought, which leads her to question, and then struggle against the program. In the context of the novel, "glasshouse" refers to a military prison. The polity in which the bulk of the story takes place was formerly a high-security facility for war criminals. The term was first used to describe the glass-roofed
The novel is presented as a diary written by Zeno (who claims that it is full of lies), published by his doctor. The doctor has left a little note in the beginning, saying he had Zeno write an autobiography to help him in his psychoanalysis. The doctor has published the work as revenge for Zeno discontinuing his visits.The diary, however, does not follow the chronological order; instead, it is structured in large chapters, each one developing a particular theme (The smoke addiction, My father's death, History of my marriage and so on). Only the last chapter is a real diary, with pages related to single dates in the period of the First World War. Zeno first writes about his cigarette addiction and cites the first times he smoked. In his first few paragraphs, he remembers his life as a child. One of his friends bought cigarettes for his brother and him. Soon, he steals money from his father to buy tobacco, but finally decides not to do this out of shame. Eventually, he starts to smoke his father's half-smoked cigars instead. The problem with his "last cigarette" starts when he is twenty. He contracts a fever and his doctor tells him that to heal he must abstain from smoking. He decides smoking is bad for him and smokes his "last cigarette" so he can quit. However, this is not his last and he soon becomes plagued with "last cigarettes." He attempts to quit on days of important events in his
The novel opens at the alternate close of the Second Punic War. Hannibal offers terms to the Romans: abandon your city and move north of the Alps, or be destroyed. The Romans, under the dictator Q. Fabius Maximus, accept the offer and withdraw into Germania, vowing to return. The Carthaginians declare victory and go home. One chapter and several generations later, the Romans have long since reestablished their republic. These Romans, largely out of need, have adopted a practice of Cultural Romanization more pronounced than the historical Romans did: large numbers of Germans have been adopted into the Roman society, forming a large proportion of both the legions and the Senate. A series of auspicious omens prompt the Senate to send a delegation south into Latium. The expedition leaders are subtly but immediately at cross purposes: the commander, Marcus Scipio, a scion of the ancient patrician Cornelii Scipiones family, is wholly motivated by a desire to reestablish the Republic in the Mediterranean basin. His deputy, Titus Norbanus, one of the newer, Germanic Romans, seeks personal glory, at least in part to ensure that the Germans (particularly his own family) remain as powerful within the expanded Republic as they do under the current scheme. It quickly becomes clear to the Romans that generations of constant warfare in Germania have strengthened them, whereas the Carthaginians have grown soft in the absence of real opposition. The Republic quickly begins playing the Carthaginians off against the Egyptians (the only other serious power in the
Helm is assigned to impersonate a rich oil baron in order to track down a shipment of weapons before it can be used to overthrow the Mexican government. Matt Helm starts by taking the place of an oil millionaire, this is one of the assignments where Mac is helping another agency by loaning out the services of his agent - Matt Helm. As usual, Mac is not doing this from purely altruistic purposes and gives Matt his usual warning - "Don't trust anyone" in the beginning of the novel. Head of the agency borrowing Matt Helm, a man called Somerset, wants Matt to go into Mexico and help trace a shipment of illegal arms, supposedly being smuggled to be supplied to Mexican revolutionaries by the said millionaire Horace Hosmer Cody. In the beginning of the novel, Cody is arrested by Somerset's people and Helm takes his place with a make up job that he thinks will fool noone and it doesn't. Almost all of the story takes place in Mexico where Matt once again runs into his old ally Ramon Solana-Ruiz of the Mexican security. The novel is full of intrigue and typical Matt Helm style action. Most of the characters don't turn out to be what they are shown to be in the beginning of the story and many of them go through radical image change including some of the dead characters. Matt, of course, succeeds in the mission completing all of the objectives, sometimes with help from others.
Lily, who is half fae, is the godmother to the Kingdom of Eltaria, which is quite wealthy due to the number of mines it has. However, this means that the surrounding kingdoms wish to take it over, and so Eltaria is either at war or preparing for it much of the time. Therefore, that makes overseeing the kingdom a full-time job for Godmother Lily. However, she has mastered the ability to travel via mirrors to make things easier, which Godmother Aleksia was desirous was find out in the previous book, The Snow Queen After Queen Celeste dies, Lily takes on the appearance of an evil sorceress,with the name 'Sable', and marries King Thurman, in name only, so that he won't be trapped into marrying a real evil sorceress and Princess Rosamund won't have a real wicked stepmother. However, this doesn't stop the Tradition from focusing on Eltaria, particularly on Rosa, who ends up with two Traditional paths tangled up and directed at her, that of the Beauty Asleep and Snowskin (Snow White). While her outer appearance is that of a Sleeping Beauty, she ends up being attacked by the Huntsman and in her escape, is captured by seven dwarves. However, unlike the ones in the Traditional tale, these dwarves are renegade ones, who shackle a chain about her ankle and turn her into their virtual slave. Godmother Lily, through the help of her mirror servant Jimson, locates Rosa, and donning the disguise of an old bee-woman named Maggie, goes to
One of the novel's main characters is Cathy Scarlet, who has married Neil Mitchell, son of the wealthy household where her mother Lizzie used to scrub floors. Neil's mother Hannah was totally against the marriage and makes life hard for Cathy. Cathy and her college friend, Tom Feather, set up a catering business called Scarlet Feather, the fortunes of which are traced throughout the book. Tom is in a relationship with beautiful Marcella, who dreams of being a model, but Marcella's ambitions come between the couple and there is growing distance too between Cathy and Neil. Younger characters are Neil's twin nephew and niece Simon and Maud who are in need of care, as their mother is an alcoholic and their father has disappeared. Their older brother Walter is not willing to take responsibility for them, and they end up spending a lot of time with Cathy's parents, Lizzie and Muttie, in a far less affluent part of town. The novel traces the growth of the catering company which gives it its name and the relationships of the main characters, as well as those of more minor characters such as Shona and James. Scarlet Feather explores familiar themes of family strife and responsibility, relationships and fledgling business ventures.
It tells the story of Tashi, an African woman and a minor character in Walker's earlier novel The Color Purple. Now in the US she comes from Olinka, Alice Walker's fictional African nation where female genital mutilation is practiced. Tashi marries an American man named Adam then left Olinka because of the war. Tashi chooses go back to Olinka to undergo circumcison because she is a woman torn between two cultures, Olinkan and Western. Instead of feeling free from not having the procedure done as a child it ends up bothering her. She wants to honor her Olinkan roots and has the operation in her teen years, although it is usually performed on female children. Tashi later sees several psychiatrists because she goes crazy due to the trauma she has suffered before finding the strength to act. The novel is told in many different voices, which are the characters in the novel. The novel explores what it means to have one's gender culturally defined and emphasizes that, according to Walker, "Torture is not culture."
The story begins with Dusty, the main character, receiving a mysterious phone call from an anonymous boy who claims to be dying. He soon reveals to her over the phone that he has taken an overdose with the intention of killing himself and that he rang her phone so he would have someone to talk to as he slipped away. At first he gives himself the false name Josh, which is the name of Dusty's brother who went missing a few years previously, leading Dusty to believe that he knows something about his disappearance. Dusty leaves the house to find the dying boy and attempt to save him. She searches around the local park but cannot find him anywhere. Instead she gets chased down by three men with two dogs that eventually corner her and assault her. Dusty receives frequent phone calls from the strange boy. He constantly talks about how he is suffering and how he is unable to kill himself. People start to talk about seeing this odd boy around the town. He is described as having snow-white skin and wearing a duffel coat. Stories start to spread about the boy raping a girl in another town and keeping her prisoner and when Dusty asks the boy if this is true he replies by saying he does not know or remember. When the locals start to suspect that Dusty is harbouring the boy, angry mobs go to her house and vandalise her room. When a mob traps the
Halidom and Troth are two adjacent principalities within the Land of Oz, both resembling medieval kingdoms. Heir to the throne of Halidom is Prince Gules. The people of Halidom have always derived their physical and mental abilities from three golden circlets worn by their ruler: the first around his forehead, the second on his right forearm, the third on his right thumb. The first and third circlets have been lost, with attendant loss of abilities by the subjects of Halidom. Fess is a young pageboy in the household of Prince Gules, but Fess was born in Troth, so the circlets have no effect on him. Awakening one day to discover that all the natives of Halidom are strangely languid, Fess learns that the second (and last remaining) circlet has been stolen. He embarks on a quest with Prince Gules, aided by a unicorn and a Flittermouse (a mouse with wings) to retrieve all three. Meanwhile, Dorothy Gale and the Cowardly Lion temporarily leave the Emerald City to place an order with the Easter Bunny, whose underground domain is conveniently accessible from Oz. When Dorothy escapes from an orphanage, she and the Lion join the Prince and Fess in their quest. Robin Brown, an orphan from Oregon, USA, rides a magic merry-go-round horse to the Land of Oz. The horse whisks him to the Quadling and Munchkin Countries of Oz, where Robin has adventures in View Halloo (a region dedicated to fox-hunting) and Roundabout (a land where everything is round, inhabited
In his review of Strip Tease, Donald E. Westlake commented that, at the center of all the wackiness was an accessible, touching storyline: a single mother’s quest to rescue her young daughter from a reckless husband and an inadequate foster care system. Skinny Dip has at its center a wife who survives a murder attempt by her husband, and is driven not just by the need to get even, but to find out the reason he did it. This gives the novel more focus than some of Hiaasen’s other books, which often involve the characters running across each other in random ways, or going on unplanned wanderings across Florida. The other central plot is the fight to save the Everglades, and the role that the villains are playing in its destruction. Somewhere along the way, the two plot lines converge, and the quest to take revenge on Chaz becomes tied up with the aim of stopping Red’s pollution. In other words, the reader is offered a choice of which thing to root for: some readers may think that Chaz’s betrayal of the environment for money makes him detestable, but trying to murder his wife is what makes him a true monster; other readers may think the exact opposite. Skinny Dip is also enriched by a variety of subplots: Tool's gradual moral awakening, as he grows closer to a dying old lady who is too proud to admit that she has been abandoned by her family; Karl Rolvaag's longing for his
The novel starts in a cloudy August night when a casket bearing the corpse of one who is identified as Aurora V. Cabahug arrives in the Ninoy Aquino International Airport from Jeddah. Mysteriously identified by Jeddah authorities as having died from drowning, she is one of 600 Filipino overseas workers who return as corpses to NAIA every year. The corpse, however, is not the real Aurora Cabahug but of her older sister, Soledad. The real Aurora Cabahug, called Rory, has in fact never set foot beyond the small town of Paez and is a singer in the Flame Tree, a KTV nightclub frequented by cops, the town’s vice-mayor and Koreans. Rory learns of her sister's death and she claims the body with the help of a local police officer, Walter G. Zamora. Along the way, their vehicle along with the casket is stolen by notorious carnapper known as Boy Alambre. In the end, Soledad's casket, is discovered by Boy Alambre. He pushes the casket into a murky river, but in an ironic twist of fate, the thief is taken along and drowns with the corpse. Soledad remains as faceless as she was when she came home. In a series of flashbacks and narrations, we learn of the stories in each of the main characters’ lives. Their mysteries are not fully unraveled however, left to the past or to events that have yet to be told.
The book begins with a chapter in which Richard Harrowby, a Virginian cosmetics manufacturer, promises to explain the sudden appearance of "genius" in his late neighbor, Felix Kennaston. His story will be based on his notes from a conversation with Kennaston. There follow the last six chapters of Kennaston's first draft. A clerk named Horvendile is in love with the heroine, Ettare, but sees her as the ideal woman who is in all desired women, not someone he can love with the disappointments of living with a flesh-and-blood person. He brings about the climactic confrontation between hero and villain. After the hero wins, Horvendile reveals to him and Ettare that they are characters in a book and that he is the Author's stand-in. He must return to his own, prosaic country. As safe-conduct back to Storisende, Ettare gives him half of a talisman she wears, the Sigil of Scoteia. Having composed this while walking in his garden, Kennaston realizes he has dropped a piece of lead: a broken half of a disk inscribed with indecipherable characters. He surmises he was unconsciously inspired by it to invent the sigil. That night he falls asleep looking at the gleaming metal and has a lucid dream of Ettare, who is also aware that she is dreaming. When he touches her, he wakes up. Kennaston writes a new ending for his novel. After a reviewer condemns it as indecent, it becomes a bestseller. When Kennaston sleeps facing light reflected from the mysterious sigil, he
It is the story of a young Bengali man’s adventures in Africa in the years 1909-1910. Shankar, the protagonist, is a 20 year old man, recently graduated from college and about to take up a job in a jute mill, a prospect he absolutely loathes. He yearns for adventure, wild lands, forests and animals. He wants to follow the footsteps of famous explorers like Livingstone, Mungo Park, Marco Polo, all of whom he has read about and idolizes. By a stroke of luck, he secures a job as a clerk in Uganda Railways through a fellow villager already working there and goes to Africa without a second thought. There, he spends a few months laying rail tracks but soon encounters the first of many dangers of Pre-World War I Africa—man-eating lions. Later he takes up a job as station master in desolate station. Here he encounters the another hazard in Africa: the poisonous black mamba. He also rescues and looks after the middle-aged Portuguese explorer and gold prospector, Diego Alvarez. The encounter with Alavarez influences him deeply. Alavarez tells him of his earlier exploits and adventures, how he and his companion Jim Carter had braved deep jungles and mountains of Richtersveld to find the largest diamond mine. However, they were thwarted by the legendary Bunyip, a mythical monster which guards the mines which killed Carter. Shankar gives up his job and accompanies Alvarez as he decides to venture out once more and find the mines again. They meet with innumerable
In this novel, Mia must learn to deal with public life, beginning with a primetime interview Mia is instructed to attend by her Grandmère, despite Mia's protests. When Mia gets a sore throat, she thinks that the interview will be cancelled, but she is drawn out of her sickbed by the entice of a "secret admirer", and cannot avoid the interview. During the interview itself, Mia accidentally says a number of embarrassing things, including that her mother is pregnant with the baby of her fiancé, Mr. Gianini (who is also Mia's algebra teacher). The pregnancy revealed, Grandmère organizes for the Royal Genovian Event Planner to be flown to New York from Genovia to plan an elaborate, elitist wedding. Mia has to deal with the unwanted attention brought on by the interview, along with the knowledge that a secret admirer has been sending her emails. On the day of the wedding, Mia discovers that her mom and Mr. G have eloped in Mexico with the help of her father. Mia herself manages to escape the wedding extravaganza in her bridesmaid gown to attend the Halloween screening of The Rocky Horror Picture Show with her friends, where she discovers that her secret admirer is her biology partner Kenny Showalter. Mia is disappointed, as she has been hoping that it would be Michael, her own crush and Lilly's older brother. The book ends with Mia philosophically reflecting that what doesn't kill us makes us stronger, and that she cannot hurt Kenny's feelings and
In 1968, a dangerous period of the Cold War, U.S. and Soviet forces engage in brinkmanship across the world. At sea, their submarines play a dangerous cat-and-mouse game. To Kill the Potemkin tells the story of a confrontation between these submarines - one being a new and advanced class of submarine whose existence must remain a secret. Jack Sorensen, one of the Navy's best sonar operators, is sonar chief of USS Barracuda, a nuclear-powered Skipjack-class submarine. Sorenson is a veteran who jokes about submarine warfare as a game (which he calls "Cowboys and Cossacks"), and he's determined to never lose. Using his sonar gear, Sorensen can find and identify submarines as few others can. Fogerty, a promising but inexperienced sonar analyst newly assigned to Barracuda, is determined to learn from Sorensen. Sorenson is something of an eccentric and also has a drug addiction (with drugs provided by one of the vessel's medical officers) and when in port, as a heavy drinker and partier, but this is tolerated because his determination and expertise make him so valuable. The novel begins as Barracuda departs it's east coast base for the Mediterranean Sea. Once there, Barracuda engages in anti-submarine warfare exercises with other Western submarines. Its mission is to "hunt" the U.S. Navy's 6th Fleet and the flagship, the aircraft carrier. The Barracuda "sinks" several of the American submarines playing the Soviet Navy vessels. The drill is interrupted by the appearance of a vessel that Fogarty correctly determines, that one of the submarines,
Sylvester, the wealthy Duke of Salford, is considering marriage. After discussing his prospects with his beloved ailing mother, who thinks he is too arrogant towards women, he travels to London to discuss the matter with his godmother, Lady Ingham, who tells him of her granddaughter, Phoebe, whose late mother was a close friend of the dowager Duchess of Salford. He departs for a hunt in the countryside and meets Phoebe's father. Impressed by the man's hunting, Sylvester consents to being his guest but is disgusted to find that he is the only person that has been invited to stay and therefore feels his hand is being forced. As the visit progresses he regrets his visit and considers Phoebe to be insipid and talentless. Phoebe's step-mother is a bully and tactlessly tells Phoebe that Sylvester has come to make her an offer of marriage. Terrified of being made to marry Sylvester and getting no sympathy from her father, Phoebe calls upon a childhood friend, Tom Orde, to help her run away to live with her grandmother, Lady Ingham, in London. Phoebe is unaware that Lady Ingham is the person who suggested Sylvester marry her. Tom has left a note for his mother who rushes round to Phoebe's parents with the news of their flight which is mistakenly taken for an elopement. Sylvester is very happy to have the excuse to return to London and comes across their carriage which has had an accident and in which Tom has broken his leg.
The narrator, presented as the author himself, is dismayed by literary critics saying that he has never written a moral tale. The narrator then begins telling the story of his friend Toby Dammit. Dammit is described as a man of many vices, presumably at least in part due to his left-handed mother flogging him with her left hand, considered improper. Dammit often made rhetorical bets, becoming fond of the expression "I'll bet the devil my head." Though the narrator tries to break Dammit of bad habits, he fails. Nevertheless, the two remain friends. While traveling one day, they come across a covered bridge. It is gloomy and dark, lacking windows. Dammit, however, is unaffected by its gloom and is in an unusually good mood. As they cross the bridge, they are stopped by a turnstile partway across. Dammit bets the devil his head that he can leap over it. Before the narrator can reply, a cough alerts them to the presence of a little old man. The old man is interested in seeing if Dammit is capable of making such a leap and offers him a good running start. The narrator thinks to himself that it is improper for an old man to push Dammit into making the attempt—"I don't care who the devil he is," he adds. The narrator watches as Dammit makes a perfect jump, though directly above the turnstile he falls backwards. The old man quickly grabs something and limps away. The narrator, upon checking on his
The narrator is initially on a ferry to Egypt, and concludes many years later as a tourist in Egypt again. The first tale concerns an Indian servant from Bombay who, having no real alternative at home, accompanies his master on a diplomatic mission to Washington, D.C.. The two Indians suffer abominably from the poor value of Indian currency. The servant lives in almost a cupboard and inadvertently blows several weeks salary just buying a snack. However he gets to meet a restaurant proprietor who offers him an apparent fortune as a salary, so he absconds and works for him. Once he has his affairs in reasonable order, however, he starts to live in fear that his master will find him and order him back. He also learns that he is working illegally and liable to deportation. The only way of resolving the situation is to marry a woman who had seduced him but whom he had avoided ever since out of shame for his behaviour. The second story has an unreliable narrator. It concerns a rural West Indian family, a set of cousins, one of whom being in a better situation manages to humiliate the narrator. The richer family has a son who goes to Canada and is destined to do well, while the others can expect nothing. The younger brother of the second family then sets out for England to study engineering, while his elder brother does all he can to support him. Eventually the elder brother follows him
Set in three distinct parts, An Open Swimmer is a 'coming of age' novel; it details the late-teen life of a young man named Jerra Nilsam. A considerable part of the novel describes the camping trip taken by Jerra and his childhood friend, Sean. On this camping trip, Jerra and Sean meet an old man living in a shack on the beach near their camp site. As the story progresses, it becomes apparent that the old man had murdered his wife in a similar shack on a nearby beach by burning it down with her inside. Many sub-plots are scattered throughout this book in the form of spontaneous paragraphs and dialogues between unnamed characters (but presumably one of them is Jerra). In the end, after having returned home and parted ways with Sean, Jerra returns to the camping site alone. While Jerra is sleeping in his van, there is a violent storm which results in a large tree falling on the Kombi. Jerra awakes in the old mans hut, the storm having passed and having been saved by the old man. In the final paragraph, Jerra returns to his Kombi, opens the fuel tank and drops a match into it before running.
Valérian wakes up in a hotel room next to the blonde woman he met at the end of Métro Châtelet, Direction Cassiopeia. He has been roused by Laureline using their telepathic link. She explains that Albert had become concerned at Valérian's disappearance some days previously and, unable to locate him, had resorted to contacting Galaxity via the space-time relay. Galaxity had then passed on the message to Laureline who used the link to contact him. Valérian, embarrassed, explains that he has been enjoying himself with the woman, who is called Cynthia Westerby. Laureline tells Valérian that Albert is certain that Cynthia is an agent of W.A.A.M. Laureline, meanwhile, has found out more about what happened on Zomuk when the four elements were stolen. A magnificent spacecraft had landed on Zomuk near the sanctuary and two figures emerged claiming to be the gods the Zoms worshiped. Believing them, the Zoms took them to the sanctuary and presented them with the four elements. Each “god” took two of the elements but their separation seemed to cause the two “gods” to fight amongst themselves. When, during the fight, one of the “gods” dropped a disintegrator rifle, the Zoms realised they were being deceived – but too late: the spacecraft, now carrying the four elements, took off. Analyzing the disintegrator, Laureline determines that it was manufactured on one of the asteroids of the Elsinn Belt, a known hideout for space pirates. She decides to head there to see what she can find. The next
The stories involve several vacations. Two children, Joey and Mary Alice Dowdel, spend time every summer with their resilient grandmother in rural Illinois. "Shotgun Cheatham's Last Night Above Ground - 1929" (originally printed in Twelve Shots: Stories About Guns, 1997). The first summer the children go to their grandmother's house alone a reporter is doing a report on a resident of the town who has just died, Shotgun Cheatham. Grandma holds an open house for Shotgun and lies to the reporter by saying he was a war hero. Grandma's enemy, Effie Wilcox, comes too but then the coffin begins to move. Ms. Wilcox and the reporter run out, but it turns out that it was the cat who moved the coffin. "The Mouse in the Milk - 1930." The next summer, the Cowgill boys are tormenting the town and blow up Grandma's mailbox. Grandma tells one of the boys she won't be home for her daily milk delivery, knowing the boys would try to steal something from her. That night she turns the lights off and waits for them to come and steal; she catches them and has Joey get their parents. Grandma tells Mr. Cowgill that if his boys won't stop she'll tell everyone that she found a mouse in her milk, running his business to the ground. "A One-Woman Crime Wave - 1931". Grandma uses fish traps (which are illegal) to get catfish from the lake while using the sheriff's boat (which she stole) to feed to drifters.
The story's narrator is a writer who works as a fact checker for a high-brow magazine—likely based on Harpers or The New Yorker, where McInerney himself once worked as a fact checker—for which he had once hoped to write. By night, he is a cocaine using party-goer seeking to lose himself in the hedonism of the 1980s yuppie party scene, often going to a nightclub called Heartbreak. His wife, Amanda, recently left him and he copes with this by pretending nothing happened and telling no one that she's gone. Initially hopeful that she will return someday, he eventually resorts to searching for her at a fashion event. He obsesses over every item she owned in his apartment, every modeling photo and every club she visited, even repeatedly visiting a mannequin based on her. Also, his partying is affecting his work and he appears to be on the verge of getting fired by his temperamental boss. The novel would go on to be the source material for the 1988 film Bright Lights, Big City, which was also written by McInerney. In 1999, an off Broadway stage musical was produced by the New York Theater Workshop, written by Paul Scott Goodman and directed by Michael Grief, with orchestrations and musical direction by Richard Barone.
The story takes place in Northern Europe, in an area inhabited by clans of humans named after different animals. These clans live a hunter-gatherer existence and adhere to a shamanic belief system. Six months after the events of Wolf Brother, Torak, the young male protagonist, is now living with the Raven Clan. One of the clan members, becomes sick and attempts to kill himself and his young nephew, but is stopped by the clan's leader. He is tied up and quarantined. Torak suspects that the sickness has been created by a group of renegade shamans known as the Soul-Eaters. Leaders from other Clans come to the Raven camp and tell them the sickness has been spreading through the forest. Torak realises that a small creature has been stalking him and trying to kill him, and when Oslak escapes and kills himself, Torak discovers that the creature was responsible. Torak sneaks out of the camp and goes into the forest seeking a cure. Wolf, Torak's companion from the previous novel, has been living with a pack in the High Mountains, but becomes unhappy with his life and he goes off to find Torak. Renn, the female protagonist, has encountered the creature at the Raven Camp and the clan's shaman, Sauenn, explains that a it is a Tokoroth: a child who has been stolen from their mother and abused by the Soul-Eaters until he or she does their bidding, the Soul-Eaters then put a demon inside the child. Renn sneaks out of
June 30, 2008: Boxer Santaros (Dwayne Johnson) wakes up alone in the Nevada desert, he takes out a red syringe and injects himself in the neck. He begins walking through the desert. Fortunio Balducci (Will Sasso) is on a houseboat with Tab Taverner-Former Mayor of Hermosa, his son Ronald Taverner (Seann William Scott) nephew, Jimmy Hermosa and friend, Krysta Now (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Fortunio is currently in an online-poker game with several American soldiers in Syria and loses, but the connection is lost because the soldiers were attacked—which means Fortunio is still going to lose his money. Fortunio owes some bookies in Las Vegas $100,000 so Tab suggests that Fortunio get out of Nevada before the holiday weekend begins; this should buy him some time. Fortunio can’t get across the border because he has no interstate visa to get across and will take sometime for him to get one. Krysta Now tells Fortunio that she can get him a visa and to meet her at a bar called Buffalo Bill’s situated at the border. Fortunio leaves the boat and drives towards the border. On his way, he finds Boxer passed out on the road. He pulls over and approaches him. Boxer stirs and says: ‘I am a pragmatic prevaricator, with a propensity for oratorical seniority, which is too pleonastical to be expeditiously assimilated by any of your unequivocal veracities.’ Fortunio puts him inside the car and they begin to drive off again. Fortunio asks Boxer how and what he was
Many years ago two wealthy adventurers, Roghan the Fearless and Zelligar the Unknown, built a hidden complex known as the Caverns of Quasqueton. From this base, they conducted their affairs away from the prying eyes of civilization. While of questionable ethical standing, the two drove back a barbarian invasion and gained the support of locals. Eventually, they gathered their own army and went on an expedition against said enemies, where they met their demise. The player characters (PCs) enter the story at this point, hearing a variety of rumors provided in the module. Each PC knows one or more of the stories although the veracity of them is somewhat questionable. The rumors mostly involve a great treasure hidden somewhere in the Caverns of Quasqueton, which the PCs can enter from a cave-like opening. A variety of monsters wander through the finished upper level of the dungeon including orcs, troglodytes, and giant rats. The DM checks periodically to see if the group encounters these menaces in addition to the dangers in each individual room. Most of the rooms come with blank spots where the DM fills in whatever monster or treasure is most suitable for their campaign. The finished upper level served as a home for Roghan and Zelligar and contains much of their personal possessions. As is typical in these early adventures, a number of traps await an unwary group. Some of these rooms include an area filled with pools (some hazardous and others not) and a wizard's laboratory. The
The story begins in Prague with news of the assassination in Sarajevo that precipitates World War I. Švejk displays such enthusiasm about faithfully serving the Austrian Emperor in battle that no one can decide whether he is merely an imbecile or is craftily undermining the war effort. However, he is arrested by a member of the secret police, Bretschneider, after making some politically sensitive remarks, and is sent to prison. After being certified insane he is transferred to a madhouse, before being ejected. Švejk gets his charwoman to wheel him (he claims to be suffering from rheumatism) to the recruitment offices in Prague, where his apparent zeal causes a minor sensation. Unfortunately, he is transferred to a hospital for malingerers because of his rheumatism. He finally joins the army as batman to army chaplain Otto Katz; Katz loses him at cards to Lieutenant Lukáš, whose batman he then becomes. Lukáš is posted with his march battalion to barracks in České Budějovice, in Southern Bohemia, preparatory to being sent to the front. After missing the train to Budějovice, Švejk embarks on a long anabasis on foot around Southern Bohemia in a vain attempt to find Budějovice, before being arrested as a possible spy and deserter (a charge he strenuously denies) and escorted to his regiment. He is then promoted to company orderly. The unit embarks on a long train journey towards Galicia and the Eastern Front. Stopping in a town on the border between Austria and Hungary, in which relations between
Like Nesbit's Railway Children, the story begins when a group of children move from London to the countryside of Kent. While playing in a gravel pit, the five children—Robert, Anthea, Cyril, Jane, and their baby brother, the Lamb—uncover a rather grumpy, ugly and occasionally malevolent sand-fairy known as the Psammead, who has the ability to grant wishes. However, the Psammead has been buried for so long, he is no longer able to grant individual wishes. Instead, he persuades the children to take one wish per day, to share amongst the lot of them, with the caveat that the wishes will turn to stone at sundown. This, apparently, used to be the rule in the Stone Age, when all children wished for was food, the bones of which would then become fossils. However, when the children's first wish—to be "as beautiful as the day"—ends at sundown, it simply vanishes, leading the Psammead to observe that some wishes are too fanciful to be changed to stone. All the wishes go comically wrong. When the children wish to be beautiful, the servants don't recognize them and shut them out of the house. When they wish to be rich, they find themselves with a gravel-pit full of gold spade guineas that no shop will accept as it is no longer in circulation, so they can't buy anything. A wish for wings seems to be going well, but at sunset the children find themselves stuck atop a church bell tower with no way down, getting
The Continental Op is called to Personville (known as "Poisonville" to the locals) by Donald Willsson, who is murdered before the Op has a chance to meet with him. The Op begins work on the murder and meets with Willsson's father, Elihu, a local industrialist who has found his control of the city threatened by several competing gangs he himself had originally invited into his city to "resolve" a labor dispute. The Op extracts a promise and a signed letter from Elihu that pays the Continental Detective Agency, the Op's employer, $10,000 in exchange for cleaning up the city. When the Op solves Donald's murder, Elihu tries to renege on the deal, but the Op won't allow him to do so. In the meantime, the Op finds himself spending time with Dinah Brand, a possible love interest of Donald Willsson's as well as a moll for the local gangster Max "Whisper" Thaler. Between Brand and the crooked chief of police, Noonan, the Op manages to extract and spread most of the information he needs to set off a gang war among the four major local factions. He wakes up the next morning to find Brand stabbed to death with the icepick the Op had used the previous evening, with no visible signs of forced entry. The Op ends up a suspect sought by the police for this murder, and one of his fellow operatives ends up leaving Personville because he is uncertain of the Op's innocence. The story ends as
The book also contains a famous appendix also circulated independently as the Pseudomonarchia daemonum, a listing of the names and titles of infernal spirits, and the powers alleged to be wielded by each of them. Weyer relates that his source for this intelligence was a book called Liber officiorum spirituum, seu liber dictus Empto Salomonis, de principibus et regibus demoniorum ("The book of the offices of spirits, or the book called Empto, by Solomon, about the princes and kings of demons.) Weyer's reason for presenting this material was not to instruct his readers in diabolism, but rather to "expose to all men" the pretensions of those who claimed to be able to work magic, men who "are not embarrassed to boast that they are mages, and their oddness, deceptions, vanity, folly, fakery, madness, absence of mind, and obvious lies, to put their hallucinations into the bright light of day." Weyer's source alleged there were estimated to be 7,451,926 devils, divided into 1111 legions and obeying 72 infernal princes. Weyer's source claimed that Hell arranged itself hierarchically in an infernal court which is divided into princes, ministries and ambassadors.
Septimus has become the apprentice to Marcia Overstrand, the ExtraOrdinary Wizard. and a year has gone by. Septimus' older brother, Simon, had run away after an argument between him and Sarah/Silas Heap about Septimus, who Simon disliked. He comes back and kidnaps Jenna on his horse, Thunder. Septimus goes to search for her and he is assisted in his search by his brother Nicko, who helps build boats at Jannit Maarten's boatyard. But Jenna runs away from Simon's observatory in The Badlands and makes her way towards The Port. Eventually Septimus is able to rescue Jenna with his elder brother Nicko's help from the Port but they are tracked by Sleuth, Simon's tracking ball. They make their way to the Marram Marshes where they take the Dragon-Boat from Aunt Zelda's cottage and fly her to the Castle. However, they are pursued by Simon, who used a Flyte Charm to fly in the sky. Simon drops a huge Thunderflash on the Dragon-Boat's wing and it drops over Jannit Marten's Boatyard. Septimus, Jenna and Aunt Zelda are able to revive her through the Transubstantiation Triple spell. Septimus is also in search of the long lost Flyte charm. He finds the separated charm and unites it along with the small pair-of-wings Flyte charm that Marcia had given him as a token for his apprenticeship. Eventually he is able to fly and even warns Simon never to harm Jenna again. Also, the rock that Jenna gave him at Aunt Zelda's cottage turns out to
The Veiled Prophet continues Uldyssian's journey toward Kehjan City where his goal is to seek the Mage Clans as allies against Inarius and his Cathedral of Light. The book lays the ground for upcoming Diablo games and novels. Uldyssian plans to reach Kehjan City to convince the Mage Clans to ally against the Prophet (Inarius) and his Cathedral of Light servants. However, things get complicated. Uldyssian renamed his followers as The Edyrem, the descendents of the firstborn: the Nephalem. Serenthia and Uldyssian's brother, Mendeln, helped him control the masses of nearly a thousand Edyrem marching toward Kehjan City, still days ahead. Meldeln had learned from Rathma the ways of the Necromancer and communed with Ghosts who would tell him things as spies at his service. The Edyrem found a few merchant wagons and decided to talk to the influential merchant to seek an audience with the Mage Clans. Only Uldyssian continues the journey to Kehjan City alongside the merchant. Otherwise, Kehjan City would see the approach of a thousand Edyrem as an impending invasion. On their way to the city, a mage and a servant attack the merchant wagons. Everyone is killed, but Uldyssian who fought in vain against a binding spell. Shortly, the mage brought Uldyssian to his sanctum beneath Kehjan City. The mage planned to frame Uldyssian to look like the murderer of the influential merchant so that the Edyrem would be blamed. His monstruous servant kept watch over Uldyssian, while his master left to meet the Mage
The story starts in Spanish Guinea with a Frenchman on vacation, who finds a man named Toundi. He has been injured and soon dies. The Frenchman finds his diary, which is called an "exercise book" by Toundi. The rest of the story is of the diary (exercise book) that the Frenchman is supposedly reading. There is no further discussion of the Frenchman after this point. The first "exercise book" starts with Toundi living with his family. His father beats him constantly, and one day he runs away from his home. He runs to the rescue of Father Gilbert, a priest who lives nearby. His father comes back for him, telling Toundi that everything will be alright if he comes back. He denies his father's offer and after this point he no longer acknowledges his birth parents. Toundi treats Father Gilbert as his new father. Father Gilbert teaches Toundi to read and write, and he teaches Toundi about Catholicism. Toundi believes in Catholicism, but as the story progresses he drifts from his beliefs until the end, when he does not believe in God. Father Gilbert dies in a motorcycle accident a few months after meeting Toundi. Toundi is eventually taken to live with the Commandant, the man in charge of the surrounding colony. He serves as the houseboy for the Commandant, and later Madame, the Commandant's wife. It becomes very clear that the events that go on in the house are more important to Toundi than his own life. After about
Cosmopolis is the story of Eric Packer, a 28 year old multi-billionaire asset manager who makes an odyssey across midtown Manhattan in order to get a haircut. He drives around in a stretch limo which is richly described as luxurious, spacious and highly technical, filled with television screens and computer monitors, bulletproofed and floored with Carrara marble. It is also cork lined to eliminate (though unsuccessfully, as Packer notes) the intrusion of street noise. Packer's voyage is obstructed by various traffic jams caused by a presidential visit to the city, a full-fledged anti-capitalist riot, and a funeral procession for a Sufi rap star. Along the way, the hero has several chance meetings with his wife and sexual encounters with other women. Packer is also stalked by two men, a comical "pastry assassin" and an unstable "credible threat". Through the course of the day, the protagonist loses incredible amounts of money for his clients by betting against the rise of the yen, a loss that parallels his own fall. Packer seems to relish being unburdened by the loss of so much money, even stopping to make sure he loses his wife's fortune as well, to ensure his ruin is inevitable. He is finally murdered by the second of the two stalkers, a former employee who sees the assassination of Packer as the only possible meaningful act in his own life.
This story follows Donata, daughter of a wealthy noble in 1592. VENICE, ITALY 1592. Donata Mocenigo, daughter to one of the city's noble families, leads a life of wealthy privilege. But constrained by the strict rules of etiquette a young noblewoman must observe, she longs to throw off her veil and wander freely around the vibrant city she can see only from her balcony. So Donata comes up with a daring plan to escape the palazzo and explore - a plan that will change her own and her family's lives for ever. Donata Mocenigo is the daughter of a wealthy Venetian noble family; but chages at her lack of freedom. Eventually she and her sisters conspire to let her dress up as a poor boy, and wander the city freely - her twin sister, Laura, taking her place around the household. On her first visit outside her palazzo, she injures her foot, wanders into the Jewish Ghetto, and meets a young man called Noé, who helps her and gives her a pair of shoes, in return for her working off the debt for him at a printers' workshop, copying out handbills. Donata does so for a month, getting closer to Noé. Meanwhile, at home, she and Laura persuade their father to allow them to join their brothers in tutorials - Donata begins learning to read and write, and about architecture, business and history. Laura, however, is less interested, and quits tutorials after a short time. As Donata and Laura are
Arthur Pendennis ("Pen" to his friends) is the only child of a prosperous physician or apothecary now deceased. He and his foster-sister Laura are raised in the village of Fairoaks by his indulgent mother, Mrs. Pendennis. The family has risen to gentility in the past generation or two but is not wealthy: the late Mr. Pendennis left only a house and investments producing about 500 pounds a year. The Pendennises, however, claim descent from an ancient family, and Arthur's uncle Major Pendennis, though he has only his retired Army pay, associates with wealthy and titled people. As Pen and Laura grow up, Mrs. Pendennis tells them that she hopes they will marry someday. At age 18, however, Pen falls in love with an actress, Emily Fotheringay (a stage name), who is about ten years his senior. Emily's father, Captain Costigan, believes that Pen is rich and wants Pen to marry his daughter, but Pen's mother is horrified. She summons Major Pendennis from London and the Major derails the marriage simply by telling Costigan that his nephew is not rich. Emily jilts Pen. Pen, heartbroken, leaves home to study at St Boniface's college in Oxbridge. There he lives extravagantly, unwittingly causing his mother and Laura to live in near poverty. After two years, Pen fails his final examination and remorsefully returns home where, unfortunately, his mother and Laura easily forgive him and Laura sacrifices her small personal fortune to pay Pen's debts. He soon returns to Oxbridge, retakes the exam, and
The Day Boy and the Night Girl begins by telling of a witch named Watho who, in her pursuit of complete knowledge, undertook an experiment to mold two people from birth by strictly controlling their environments. Watho convinced two expectant mothers to visit her castle. Lady Aurora (whose ambassador husband was away on business) was given spacious, sunlit rooms to stay in; she gave birth to a boy. The witch promptly whisked him away, sending his mother back to her home burdened with the lie that her son had died shortly after birth. The other woman (who had recently been widowed and become blind) Watho settled in windowless, tomblike chambers elsewhere in the castle. Vesper died in childbirth, leaving her daughter to the witch’s keeping. Watho did everything in her power to ensure that the boy Photogen grew up strong, able, and fearless. However, her foremost concern regarding the boy was that he should never see the night. Watho desired the opposite for the girl Nycteris, who knew no other world than the stony chambers she had been born in and no other light than that provided by the single dim lamp. It came about that Nycteris, in her sixteenth year, found her way out of these chambers into a night lit by a full-moon. Nycteris was filled with wonder at this glorious new light and the rest of nature; she returned to her rooms before daybreak, desiring to see the outdoors again and not wanting to spoil her chance
Crystal, the only daughter of the old, long-exiled haughty royalist, the Comte de Cambray, is on the eve of betrothal to de Marmont, (secretly an ardent Bonapartist). Bobby Clyffurde, the Englishman, who is in love with Crystal, confronts Victor de Marmont about why he is pretending to be a royalist. De Marmont replies that he has never led the Comte to suppose anything, the Comte has merely taken de Marmont’s political convictions for granted. As if two potential suitors weren’t enough, Crystal has yet another admirer, Maurice de St. Genis, whose impecunious state (her father sees him as a penniless, out-at-elbows, good for nothing) has precluded him from obtaining her hand in marriage. Howeve at the moment of Crystal’s betrothal to de Marmont, Maurice finally gets his revenge upon his rival. Once the guests have assembled for the ceremony, there is a disturbance from the end of the corridor and St. Genis enters the room, his rough clothes and muddy boots providing a contrast to the immaculate get-up of the Comte’s guests. Looking flushed and clutching his cane he announces that he has only come to avert the awful catastrophe that is about to fall on the Comte and his family. At the young man’s ominous words, M. le Comte goes pale and demands to know what catastrophe could be worse than twenty years of exile? "An alliance with a traitor, M. le Comte" he replies. St. Genis goes on to accuse his rival of pinning Napoleon’s proclamation on the
Celie, the protagonist and narrator, is a poor, uneducated, fourteen-year-old black girl living in the South. She starts writing letters to God because her father, Alphonso, beats and rapes her. Alphonso has already impregnated Celie once. Celie gave birth to a girl, whom her father presumably killed in the woods. Celie has a second child, a boy, whom her father also abducts. Celie’s mother becomes ill and dies. Alphonso brings home a new wife, and continues to abuse Celie. Celie and her bright, pretty younger sister, Nettie, learn that a man known only as Mr. Johnson wants to marry Nettie. Mr. Johnson has a mistress named Shug Avery, a sultry lounge singer whose photograph fascinates Celie. Alphonso refuses to let Nettie marry, and instead offers Mr. Johnson Celie, "an ugly woman," as his bride. Mr. Johnson eventually accepts the offer, forcing Celie into a difficult and joyless married life. Nettie runs away from Alphonso and takes refuge at Celie’s house. Mr. Johnson still desires Nettie, and when he advances on her, she flees. Never hearing from Nettie again, Celie assumes her dead. Mr. Johnson's sister Kate feels sorry for Celie, and tells her to fight back against Mr. Johnson rather than submit to his abuses. Harpo, Mr. Johnson's son, falls in love with a large, spunky girl named Sofia. Shug Avery comes to town to sing at a local bar, but Celie is not allowed to go see her. Sofia gets pregnant and marries Harpo. Celie is amazed by Sofia’s
Kirth Gersen is on Alphanor with Alusz Iphigenia Eperje-Tokay, a woman he had rescued in the previous novel of the series. It is plain that their short-lived relationship is nearing an end, as she cannot understand why Gersen, made extremely wealthy by his epic defrauding of Interchange, still feels the need to exterminate the remaining Demon Princes himself, instead of hiring others to do the job, but most of all, she cannot accept his cold and singleminded pursuit of vengeance. Gersen notices a newspaper article announcing the forthcoming execution of a prominent Sarkoy venefice, Kakarsis Asm, not for selling poisons to the Demon Prince, Viole Falushe, but for violating a Guild-mandated pricing policy. He accordingly hastens to Sarkovy to pursue this lead. There he learns from Kakarsis Asm (in exchange for bribing his way to a swift and painless execution) that Falushe visited Sarkovy, at the beginning of his criminal career many years before, with a shipload of slaves, two of whom he sold to Asm and whom he subsequently resold. While they are on Sarkovy, Gersen’s relationship with Alusz Iphigenia finally ends, though he ensures that she will want for nothing in the future. After visiting his new financial advisor, Jehan Addels, to check how the program to invest the proceeds of his swindle is proceeding, Gersen locates a surviving slave, whom he buys and frees in exchange for further information concerning his enemy. He learns that Falushe was born Vogel Filschner, an Earth boy of disgusting appearance and
The book tells the story about Kit Walker, son of the 20th Phantom, who will one day grow up to take over the mantle from his father and become the 21st Phantom. The book starts with Kit's birth in the Skull Cave. Several chapters are dedicated to him growing up in the Bangalla jungle, where the readers get to see events and lessons that shape him to the man he will once become. When Kit reaches the age of 12, he travels to Clarksdale, Mississippi, USA, to receive a proper education (it is a tradition in the Phantom family that the children are sent away to their mother's homeland for education). Kit lives with his mother's sister and her husband in Clarksville. Kit is a brilliant student, and receives excellent grades in every subject. Kit proves to be a talented sportsman, and is predicted to become the world champion of a number of different genres (he even knocks out the boxing champion of the world in a match when the champion visits Clarksville. Kit also meets his future wife-to-be, Diana Palmer, on a Christmas party on his school. Despite being able to choose practically any career he wants, Kit faithfully returns to Bengalla to take over the role of the Phantom when he receives word from his childhood friend Guran that his father, the 20th Phantom, is dying from wounds he received in a battle with pirates trying to rob a jungle hospital.
It tells the story of Dr. Ethan Urquhart, Chief of Biology at the Severin District Reproduction Centre on the planet of Athos, and his quest to Kline Station to find out what happened to a shipment of vital ovarian tissue cultures. Athos was founded and maintained as an exclusively male-populated planetary colony, and a planetary religion and ideology supports this single-sex structure. Their continuing reproduction relies on uterine replicator technology and ovarian tissue cultures. However, after 200 years of service, the ovarian cultures introduced by the original colonists are deteriorating into senescence. The Population Council orders new ovarian cultures from another planet, Jackson's Whole, but upon delivery discover they have received an unusable mixture of dead and animal tissues. The Council appoints Ethan their planetary ambassador and sends him offworld in search of a fresh batch of tissue cultures, and (if possible) a refund from the original supplier, House Bharaputra. This is considered to be a very daring assignment as it means contact with women, who Athosians are taught are demonic and terrifying. This impression is only reinforced by the men who periodically move to their planet from the wider galaxy and report upon the horrors of womankind. Ethan's first encounter with a woman occurs when he asks directions from Commander Elli Quinn, a rather unorthodox intelligence officer with the Dendarii Free Mercenary Fleet, who is on home leave for the first time in ten years. Many men stare at Quinn, though the reasons why are a mystery to Ethan
A boy by the name of Shasta is found as a baby and raised by Arsheesh, a Calormene fisherman. As the story begins, Shasta overhears Arsheesh agreeing to sell him to a powerful Calormene feudal nobleman. Shasta is relieved to discover that he is not really Arsheesh's son, since there was little love between them. While Shasta awaits his new master in the stable, Bree, the nobleman's stallion, astounds Shasta by speaking to him. The horse suggests that they escape a life of servitude by riding north together to Narnia. They meet another pair of escaping travellers, Aravis, a young Calormene aristocrat, and her talking horse, Hwin. Aravis is fleeing to avoid a forced marriage with the Tisroc's grand vizier. The four must travel through Tashbaan, the bustling capital of Calormen. There they encounter a procession of visiting Narnian royalty, who mistake Shasta for Corin, a prince of Archenland, who was separated from their group earlier that day. Unsure what to do, Shasta goes with the Narnians and overhears their plans to escape from Calormen to prevent a forced marriage of Queen Susan with the Tisroc's son, Rabadash. Shasta escapes when the real Prince Corin returns. Meanwhile, Aravis has been spotted by her friend Lasaraleen. She asks Lasaraleen not to betray her, and to help her escape from Tashbaan. Lasaraleen cannot understand why Aravis would want to abandon the life of a Calormene princess, but she helps Aravis escape through the palace. On the way, they hide when the Tisroc,
Approximately 70 years before the present, the 10-year-old Polish-Jewish Leopold (Leo) Gursky falls in love with his neighbor Alma Mereminski. The two begin a relationship that develops over the course of 10 years. In this time, Leo writes three books that he gives to Alma since she is the only person whom he deeply cares about. The first book is too realistic and boring, the second one is entirely fiction and unconvincing, and the last book is dedicated to his love: "The History of Love." Leo promises he will never love anyone but Alma. Alma, now 20, is sent to the United States by her father, who feared the alarming news concerning fascist Germany. Leo does not know that Alma is pregnant and dreams of going to America to meet her. A short time after, the Germans invade Poland and Leo takes cover in the woods, living on roots, small animals, bugs and what he can steal from farmers' cellars. After two years of hiding he goes to America and finds Alma but is shocked to hear she thought he had died in the war and had married the son of the manager of the factory she works at. He is devastated when he finds she has had another child with her husband. He asks her to come with him, but she refuses. She tells him, however, about his son Isaac who is now five years old. Heartbroken, Leo leaves and becomes a locksmith. Leo regularly watches Isaac from a
The novel begins with a Prologue, which describes the setting, the physical landscape around the two towns, Truth on the American side and the reserve Bright Water on the Canadian. The two towns are separated by the Shield river, which also marks the national border, and ineffectually connected by an uncompleted bridge and a "ferry," an old iron bucket suspended over the river on a steel cable. We first meet the three central characters, Tecumseh, his dog Soldier and his cousin Lum, on the riverside. Lum is training for the long-distance run to take place at the Indian Days festival, which he hopes to win. The two boys see a truck approach the coulee; a woman emerges from the vehicle, throws a suitcase into the river and jumps after it herself. However, when the boys and the dog run down to the river to see what happened to her, she has disappeared and Soldier just finds the small skull of a child long dead. The story branches out from this point to touch the stories of other characters connected to Tecumseh, his mother, who yearns to leave Truth to move to a big city and become an actress. His aunt Cassie, his mother's older sister and sometime role-model, who left the reserve to travel the world, but who has a mysterious guilt in her past that seems to bring her back to her home. One of the most central of these storylines involves Monroe Swimmer, who refers to himself as
Immediately following The Letter of Marque, the narrative picks up with Jack Aubrey getting the Surprise underway for a mission to South America. Upon reaching Lisbon, however, Dr Maturin is intercepted by Sir Joseph Blaine and told that he and Aubrey will be required to first go on a mission to the Sultan of Pulo Prabang, a (fictictious) piratical Malay state in the South China Sea. They are to transport Fox, the envoy who will lead the mission to persuade the Sultan to become an English rather than French ally. The French are being openly assisted by the same English traitors - Wray and Ledward - who were responsible for Aubrey's former disgrace. With the Surprise now commanded by Captain Pullings, they return with Blaine to England where Jack Aubrey is reinstated with his former seniority as a Post-Captain in the Royal Navy by Lord Melville, First Lord of the Admiralty. He is also given command of the recently captured French ship Diane for the mission ahead. Fatefully, the Diane is the very ship Jack Aubrey had just captured from the French and which had secured his reinstatement, along with appointment to Parliament as member from Milport. Captain Aubrey's orders to the Diane are mentioned as occurring in the "fifty-third year" of the reign of King George III, thus fixing the year at around 1813 which, due to the mental illness of the king, was the third year of the Regency. A recurring sub-plot is the hostility between the Regent
Tina von Lambert, wife of psychiatrist Otto von Lambert, has fled to an unnamed North African country (referred to as M.), where she is found raped and murdered in the [desert]. Otto hires F., a filmmaker, to travel to M. and reconstruct his wife's murder. The Chief of Police appears to be cooperative, however, after a police-escorted visit to the Al-Hakim ruins where the body was found, F.'s cameraman reveals that his footage has been replaced. The police then allow F. to question a number of foreign agents being held and tortured at the police ministry, all of whom tell her the same vague, inconclusive story, none confessing to the crime. Later, F. is taken to observe the execution of a Scandinavian spy in the central courtyard of the police compound; the Chief of Police claims that the spy has confessed to the crime and that the case is solved. They are shown the video of their investigation, which includes none of their footage; instead it has been turned into a propaganda film featuring the police. In despair, F. leaves her crew and walks alone through the marketplace, where she comes across the distinctive red fur coat she knows belonged to Tina von Lambert. She purchases the coat and wears it back to her hotel. At the hotel F.'s cameraman tells her that his footage has again been taken, this time that of the execution, and that aeroplane tickets out of the country have been booked for them for early
It's 1958 and Bruce Stevens is a buyer for a national warehouse chain who passes through his hometown of Montario, Idaho whilst enroute to Boise on business. His reason involves hormones more than nostalgia, however, as a one-time girlfriend named Peg lives there now. It is at a party at her place where he meets, and quickly falls into a relationship with, a strangely familiar older woman who turns out to be one of his former, and least favorite, elementary school teachers, Susan Faine. She simultaneously hires him on as manager of her typewriter shop. Travelling salesman Milton Lumky informs Bruce of a warehouse full of imported, Japanese-made surplus typewriters, and so Stevens drives to Seattle to see this potential bounty for himself. He belatedly discovers that the typewriters all have Spanish language keyboards, and so he tries to pass these hot potatoes down along the line to his former warehouse employer. He reveals his nefarious intentions to Susan, who passes the information onto the warehouse chain which nevertheless decides to take them off his hands at a fair but unprofitable price for Bruce. He then enters a period of waffling and indecision, ultimately deciding to try altering all of the machines himself and selling them at the shop. Returning to Boise he informs Susan of his decision and sets to work, only to return the next morning to find that Susan has fired him and all of the typewriters are being loaded into a truck by one of his
The Warlock, whose actual name is both unknown and unpronounceable, is a powerful sorcerer in excess of 200 years of age. He observes that when he stays in one place too long, his powers dwindle and will return only when he leaves that place. Experimentation leads him to create an apparatus (now known as the Warlock's Wheel) consisting of a metal disc enchanted to spin perpetually. The enchantment eventually consumes all the mana in the vicinity, causing a localized failure in all magic. The Warlock realizes that magic is fueled by a non-renewable resource, which would cause great concern among the magicians, as it was through their magic that nations enforced their wills both internally and abroad. The widespread diminishing of magical power in The Magic Goes Away triggered a quest on the part of the most powerful of the magicians of the time to harness a new source of magic (the Moon), resulting in the events described in the book. It was eventually discovered (in The Magic May Return) that mana was originally carried to Earth and the other bodies of the solar system on the solar wind, replenishing mana slowly over time. However, at some point in the "recent" past (a few thousand years ago) a god created an invisible shield between Earth and Sun that intercepted the solar mana and caused the eventual decline of magic on Earth. Traditional fantasy creatures inhabit Niven's Magic universe, but devolve to normal animals when deprived of mana. For example, a
Five days after New Year's Eve and Valerian's death, Boy and Willow have been separated by Kepler, who needs Boy further, and is determined not to let Willow get in his way. The two set off for the funeral of Korp, the director of Valerian's old theatre. To Kepler's chagrin, Willow is also there, having snuck out from the previous job that Kepler got for her at a local orphanage. The theatre violinist, Georg, insists on dragging Boy and Kepler off to a local tavern. Willow follows, and, despite Kepler's attempts to leave, he is dragged into a game of Snapdragon, which he finds he is not very good at. Meanwhile, Boy and Willow, finally reunited, discuss the possibility of abandoning Kepler and eloping together. Discovering Kepler is unconscious after drinking too much absinthe, Boy decides to return him home, and is offered help by Wilfred, the strongman. Before leaving, Boy and Willow make plans to meet at the St. Valentine's fountain, and share their first kiss. The next day, Boy seeks out the mysterious Book that Valerian had sought, and Kepler had taken, in the hope he will find out whether or not Valerian really was his father, and what is real name is. However, a hungover Kepler arrives and orders Boy to return to Valerian's house to collect the Camera, which Valerian had spent money having built in order to determine when Fate was coming. At the house, Boy finds the Camera, but before he can retrieve it,
Nicholas Lord Ramage is the third lieutenant on His Majesty's ship Sibella, but assumes command when the Captain, and the First and Second Lieutenants are killed by fire from a French ship. The French ship had fatally crippled the Sibella and had killed over half of her crew, including the surgeon and surgeon's mate. As the new Captain, Ramage decides to abandon the sinking ship. He leaves the injured on the deck to be taken prisoner by the French and hopefully treated by their surgeon. Before he abandons the ship, Ramage retrieves some documents and the late Captain's last orders. The remaining crew then loads into the four lifeboats and rows away. As they are rowing away, the crew of the French ship set the Sibella on fire after taking the injured off. Ramage opens Sir John Jervis's orders to the late Captain and finds that the Sibella was on a rescue mission to extricate the Marchesa di Volterri along with five other nobles including the Marchesa's two cousins. Ramage decides to go through with the rescue. He takes the captain's gig with several topmen and the former Captain's coxswain, Jackson, with him and sends the other surviving sailors to Bastia. Ramage and his men then land upon Monte Argentario and find the Marchesa with the help of a local charcoal maker. Half of the nobles decide not to risk trying to escape in a small boat, but Ramage rescues the Marchesa and one of her cousins, Count Pisano, although
Although Lissar is the daughter of the most beautiful queen and most handsome king in all the land, she is a lonely child whose only true companion is her dog, Ash. She is mostly ignored during her childhood due to the fact that her parents were the two most splendid people in all the seven kingdoms. Lissar's mother falls ill and starts to lose her beauty. This causes her to lose her will to live, because she wants to be remembered as the most beautiful person, and nothing less. She sends for artists from all the kingdoms, and eventually one is chosen to paint a portrait of her as she was before her illness. He works nonstop, as if driven, for a fortnight until the painting is completed and shown to the queen. After looking at the painting, she forces the king to swear that he will only remarry if he can find a bride more beautiful than she, and after he acquiesces, she dies. This seemingly impossible condition is not, however, insurmountable: as Lissar matures, she becomes not just very image of her mother, but more beautiful than her parents. The king becomes obsessed with his daughter, and insists that he will marry her. Lissar refuses him and locks herself in a room. Eventually the king finds a way into the room and rapes Lissar and almost kills Ash. Lissar and Ash escape from the king and find their way to a cabin in the mountains. Lissar, impregnated by
Since the events of Den of Thieves, Cat has been living with Frank and Lizzie. She is very happy with them, and then Frank's cousin Mr Dixon arrives. He is very nice to Cat and suggests that they all go a ball, even though Cat isn't nobility. Cat gets a beautiful dress, but the ball turns out to be a disaster. Frank is very awkward and doesn't ask her to dance. Then Billy forces a kiss on her which both Frank and Mr Dixon witness. Mortified, they return home with Cat ashamed and upset. Frank tells her off for unladylike behavior, but they soon make up and go riding. They soon get a letter that their friend Syd has not returned home, and worried, they decide to check the docks for any sign of him. They are looking for a boat when they are savagely attacked by a press gang, who throw Frank, Pedro and Cat on board the HMS Courageous and stab Mr Dixon in the stomach. On board Cat is forced to pretend do be a boy by a sailor named Maclean. He threatens Cat and makes her do a lot of chores. Meanwhile, Syd is also on board after being tricked by his manager. He is furious that his friends have also been captured, but there is nothing he can do. Then Cat asks him for a fight so the other sailors respect her more, but Syd refuses. However, he is pushed into it by the Captain
Restoree is the story of Sara, an introverted, beak-nosed, 24-year-old virgin librarian from New York who is abducted by the Mil, amorphous alien creatures that eat human flesh. She is kept alive, with her skin removed and in a catatonic state from the physical and mental shock, on a meat hook as a Mil meal until the alien ship she is on is captured by human inhabitants of the planet Lothar. Without her skin, some Lotharians mistake her for one of their own and perform controversial "restoration" procedures on her, including a nose job. Sara comes to her senses in a mental institution on Lothar with no memory of what happened, little knowledge of the local language, and a beautiful, golden-skinned body. At the institution, she is treated as if she were retarded and given menial tasks to do, as are other "restorees" who have been clandestinely salvaged from Mil ships; it is apparently some factor of Sara's Terran origins that allows her to fully recover from the shock of the Mil ordeal, while Lotharian restorees are of limited intellect at best. One of her jobs is to care for Harlan, the deposed planetary regent, who is being drugged into a moronic state. Recognizing what is being done, Sara helps Harlan to regain his senses and escape the mental institution. Sara and Harlan then gain the advantage over Harlan's political enemies, defeat the Mil, solve some of Lothar's emerging domestic problems and, of course, fall in love.
The story takes place entirely aboard an Emergency Dispatch Ship (EDS) headed for the frontier planet Woden with a load of desperately needed medical supplies. The pilot, Barton, discovers a stowaway: an eighteen-year-old girl. By law, all EDS stowaways are to be jettisoned because EDS vessels carry no more fuel than is absolutely necessary to land safely at their destination. The girl, Marilyn, merely wants to see her brother, Gerry, and is not aware of the law. When boarding the EDS, Marilyn sees the "UNAUTHORIZED PERSONNEL KEEP OUT!" sign, but thinks she will simply have to pay a fine if she is caught. Barton explains that her presence dooms the mission by exceeding the weight limit, and will result in the deaths of the colonists. No cargo can be jettisoned, and the presence of the captain is required on ship, so Barton cannot sacrifice himself. After contacting her brother, Marilyn willingly walks out of the airlock and is ejected into space. The story, first published in the August 1954 issue of Astounding, has been widely anthologized and even dramatized.
World War III begins early in the 21st century. It is fought between the two superpowers, Wes-Dem and Pac-Peop. The fighting is extensive and severe, most of it performed by "leadies", robots built to withstand the most extreme circumstance. The Earth becomes a battlefield. Unable to exist in the atmosphere created by robot war, vast "ant tanks" are constructed underground to save the diminishing human population. The government and war engine remains on the surface, the elite "Yance-men". Their president, Talbot Yancy, delivers inspirational speeches to the tankers, motivating them to increase their production of leadies and win the war. The war does eventually end. However, the Yance-men design a conspiracy to maintain the wealth of the Earth for themselves. Yancy continues to describe devastation in televised speeches. The tankers continue to produce leadies. Talbot Yancy is actually a computer generated simulacrum. The Yance-men program him from the "Agency" in New York. They live in immense villas on private parks, called "demesnes". The leadies are actually used by the Yance-men as personal servants and to maintain their estates. The Agency is run by the most vicious and greedy Yance-man, Stanton Brose, who is kept alive by pre-war artificial organs which he hoards. The story begins in one of the tanks, named Tom Mix (named after the actor Tom Mix). The tank president, Nicholas St. James, is forced to go to the surface to look for an artificial pancreas for the tank's lead mechanic. He emerges on David Lantano's property (a
The Dell mapback edition of 1950 is subtitled "Murder in the Zoo". Edward Benton, director of the Royal Albert Zoological Gardens, is worried about what the year 1941 will bring to his beloved collection of snakes and reptiles; it seems as if they will be destroyed, at the request of the Department of Home Security, to prevent poisonous snakes from escaping in the case of an air raid. Nevertheless, he is still making arrangements to add to the exhibits, including a recent acquisition, "Patience", a Bornese tree-snake. Accomplished stage magicians Carey Quint and Madge Palliser, whose professional rivalry goes back four generations, are visiting the zoo, each to research certain snakes in connection with an illusion which both claim was invented by an ancestor. They quarrel, and somehow the glass cage breaks that encloses a tropical American lizard. The lizard immediately attacks Sir Henry Merrivale, also a visitor. After the lizard is subdued, all three are led by the security guard to Dr. Benton's home on the grounds, to make their explanations and apologies. He is easily mollified, and his daughter Louise invites all three to dinner that evening. Louise is worried about her father's mental equilibrium. When the three arrive to find what seems to be an empty house, with dinner burning away merrily in the kitchen, they are perplexed—when they discover Dr. Benton has apparently locked all the doors and windows of his study, sealed them with paper strips, and gassed himself, they are aghast. Louise asks Sir
Severian, an apprentice in the torturers' guild, barely survives a swim in the River Gyoll. On his way back to the Citadel Severian and several other apprentices sneak into a necropolis where Severian first encounters Vodalus, the legendary revolutionary. Vodalus, along with two others, including a woman named Thea, are robbing a grave. Vodalus and his companions are confronted by volunteer guards. Severian saves Vodalus's life, earning his trust and the reward of a single "gold" coin. Shortly after Severian is elevated to journeyman he encounters and falls in love with Thecla, a beautiful aristocratic prisoner. Thecla's crime is never made clear, though it is ultimately implied that she is imprisoned for political reasons. Thecla's sister is Thea, Vodalus's lover, and the Autarch (ruler of the Commonwealth) wishes to use Thecla to capture Vodalus. When finally Thecla is put to torture, Severian takes pity on her and helps her commit suicide, by smuggling a knife into her cell, thus breaking his oath to the guild. Though Severian expects to be tortured and executed, instead the head of the guild is uncharacteristically forgiving and dispatches Severian to Thrax, a distant city which has need of an executioner. Master Palaemon gives Severian a letter of introduction to the archon of the city and Terminus Est, a magnificent executioner's sword. He departs the guild headquarters, traveling through the decaying city of Nessus. He finally comes upon an inn, where he forces the innkeeper to take him in despite being full and is asked
Grover's mommy tells Grover that she has a new job, much to Grover's delight. The news remains upbeat to Grover when he learns he'll have to move to "a place called Sesame Street." He, his mother, and best friend Minnie pack for the move. However, in bed that night, Grover is creeped out by his empty room, and starts to have regrets about the move. Grover experiences more shock on realizing that Minnie won't be moving with him and his mother, to which Grover's mommy consoles him with "after we are settled in our new home, Minnie may come to visit us." Grover has obvious apprehensions about the move, even when unpacking in his new room. He finds it smells "funny", and sounds "empty". Outside, on the steps of the apartment, he hollers "Hello, everybodee! Grover Monster is here. Where are my new friends?" Big Bird asks what the problem is, to which Grover replies, "I am crying because I do not have any new friends." Big Bird, a resident of the neighbourhood much longer than Grover, starts to cry with Grover, because he too has no "new friends". Of course, this is all a course of misunderstanding in the semantics of speech, as Grover means he has no friends at all, and Big Bird means that while he has friends, none are "new". The two meet and greet each other, and quickly become friends. Grover then meets Cookie Monster, Betty Lou, Bert, and Ernie. They all take him on
All three scenes are set in the sitting room of Guy's London apartment: during Guy's flatwarming party (Scene 1); after Reg's funeral, some years later (Scene 2); and after Guy's funeral (Scene 3). The group, most of them in their thirties, meet at irregular intervals, often at Guy's place. Guy himself is a lonely man. Ever since their university days, he has had a crush on John, but he has never dared to tell him about it. Rather, he lives a solitary life, which he only spices up with phone sex and an occasional visit to a gay pub -- that is where he meets 18 year-old Eric, who then helps him decorate his new flat. On holiday on the island of Lanzarote, he meets a gay man who eventually forces himself on Guy and has unprotected sex with him—the last thing Guy has been looking for. At his flatwarming party, he has just come back from his holiday and is still quite shocked about what happened. It is hard for him not to start crying when, as a present, John gives him a cookery book specialising in dishes for one. The most popular of the gay circle is Reg, who is conspicuously absent from the party. Reg has had a long-term relationship with Daniel, but Daniel himself suspects Reg of occasionally being unfaithful to him. In fact Reg seems to be sleeping with every man he can get hold of (as it seems, even with the vicar). In the
Set in the final days of autumn and the approach of winter, various characters begin to experience a change within themselves and decide to travel to Moominvalley where they can visit the Moomins. First amongst them is Toft, a small orphan who lives alone in a docked boat under the tarpaulin, and who has often dreamed about the Moomins despite the fact that he has never met them. Secondly is Fillyjonk, a woman who is usually obsessed with everything being neat and tidy, but who has an epiphany after suffering an accident and decides to "see people. People who talked and were pleasant and went in and out and filled the whole day so that there was no time for terrible thoughts". The Hemulen similarly begins to question his lifestyle, realising that his life as a collector and organiser of things simply isn't necessary, whilst a senile old man who cannot remember his own name but who calls himself Grandpa-Grumble decides to go to the "Happy Valley" that he remembers from the past.Jansson, Tove. (1974). Moominvalley in November. London: Penguin Books. Chapter Seven Alongside these figures, Mymble also decides to visit the Moomins in order to see her younger sister Little My whom they have adopted, and Snufkin also returns, realising that the valley is the place where he can gain inspiration to write a song. When they all arrive, they discover that the Moomin family have left their house, and so they all settle in to wait for their
Flip doesn't think she'll ever fit in at the Swiss boarding school. Besides being homesick for her father and Connecticut, she isn't sophisticated like the other girls, and discussions about boys leave her tongue-tied. Her happiest times are spent apart from the others, sketching or wandering in the mountains. But the day she's out walking alone and meets a French boy, Paul, things change for Flip. As their relationship grows, so does her self-confidence. Despite her newfound happiness, there are times when Paul seems a stranger to her. And since dating is forbidden except to seniors, their romance must remain a secret. With so many new feelings and obstacles to overcome in her present, can Flip help Paul to confront his troubled past and find a future? (Source: Madeline L'Engle Online) And Both Were Young is distinctive among L'Engle's works because she restored some of the original story decades after its original publication. Her first editor softened the relationship between Flip's father and Eunice Jackman. The introduction to the later edition details the changes both at the time and why the author felt it worthwhile to restore her original intent. Philippa Hunter also makes an offstage appearance in A Severed Wasp when one of her paintings becomes a plot point.
Kacak, the conceited nephew of a rich village leader in Padang, is jealous of Midun, the religious and popular son of a poor farmer; Kacak often attempts to goad Midun into fighting him. After Midun saves his wife from drowning, Kacak becomes enraged at the thought that Midun had touched his wife and attacks him. Midun fights back, quickly knocking Kacak out. As a result of his actions, Midun is forced to do tasks for the village leader under Kacak's supervision. Still enraged at Midun, Kacak hires an assassin to kill him. When the attempt fails, the assassin and Midun are arrested and sent to prison. While in prison, Midun is tortured until he earns a reputation for being a good fighter. He also meets Halimah, who lives with her stepfather, after returning her diamond necklace. After he is released from prison, Midun takes Halimah to find her father in Bogor. After living with them for two months, Midun attempts to go to Batavia to find work, together with Halimah. Along the way, he meets the Arab Indonesian Syekh Abdullah, who lends him money; after refusing to pay the high interest or letting Abudullah marry Halimah, Midun is arrested. After his release, he saves a Dutch youth being attacked in Pasar Baru. For saving the boy, Midun is granted a job at the police station by the boy's father, the hoofdcommissaris (head commissioner). He also marries Halimah. Midun is later stationed in Padang upon request to the commissioner, after hearing
Michael "Beau" Geste is the protagonist. The main narrator (among others), by contrast, is his younger brother John. The three Geste brothers of Brandon Abbas are used as a metaphor for the British upper class values of a time gone by, and "the decent thing to do" is, in fact, the leitmotif of the novel. The Geste brothers are orphans and have been brought up by their aunt. The rest of Beau's band are mainly Isobel and Claudia (only daughter of Lady Patricia, and in a way, also reason enough for Michael to join the French Foreign Legion), and Lady Patricia's relative Augustus. When a precious jewel known as the "Blue Water" goes missing, suspicion falls on the young people, and Beau leaves Britain to join the Foreign Legion (la Légion étrangère), followed by his brothers, Digby (his twin) and John. There, after some adventure and separation from Digby, the sadistic Sergeant Lejaune gets command of the little garrison at Fort Zinderneuf in French North Africa, and only an attack by Tuaregs prevents a mutiny and mass desertion (of course the Geste brothers and a few loyals are against the plot). Throughout the book and adventures, Beau's behaviour is true to France and the Legion, and he dies at his post. At Brandon Abbas, the last survivor of the three brothers, John, is welcomed by their aunt and his fiancée Isobel, and the reason for the jewel theft is revealed to have been a matter of honour, and to have
Twelve-year-old Heidi lives in the town of Reno, Nevada with her mentally-disabled mother and their neighbor, Bernadette. Her mother only knows twenty-three words, including one mysterious one, "soof," that no one can define. Meanwhile, Bernadette has a serious condition called agoraphobia, which causes her to be too afraid to go outside her house. Heidi must take on responsibilities beyond her years to provide for their households. When Heidi finds some photos of her mother at a Christmas party in New York, Heidi decides to go to that state, anxious to uncover more about her family history and to seek what the word "soof" meant, after hearing her mother mutter it all the time. Although Bernadette is anxious about Heidi leaving, she reluctantly allows her to go as long as she calls every night. During her road trip to Liberty, New York, Heidi meets Georgia Sweet, a kind and curious lady on the bus. When she arrived at Hilltop Home, she felt unwelcomed by Thurman Hill. Feeling sorrowful, Ruby takes Heidi into her own home where she and her husband, Roy, investigate. She discovers that Thurman Hill, is her grandfather, Elliot is her father, and that her grandmother was named Diana. She finally finds out what her mothers word, soof, meant, which was her nickname for Sophia Demuth. By the end her mom dies.
Billy Bunch is an orphan who has had many foster families, but none of them have worked out. He is currently living with a foster mother in the suburbs of a city. They don't get on well, and at school Billy is not good at subjects, especially English (he cannot read out loud because he has a stutter). One night, Billy tries to run away, and runs into the nearby abandoned land where there are the ruins of a monastery. There is plentiful wildlife living in this place that everyone calls "The Waste Ground". Billy fathers four orphaned foxes and develops a relationship with a swan, too. However Billy's secret place is found out and the fox family is gassed by the local council. But one survives Billy decides that his life is becoming a little better - he has found some animal friends and has lost his stutter. He returns to his foster home, but this doesn't last, and eventually he runs away with one of the young foxes (the other three were gassed by the local council), and goes on many adventures. At the end he lets the swan fly away freely. On these adventures, he meets a man who has a boat and cares for all the birds around the river. The man says that Billy can stay with him on his boat as they are going in the same direction. Eventually, Billy shoots above the foxes head and the fox runs away, never to return. Billy
Miss Temptation's real name is Susanna, and she lives in a small room above a fire house, in a little town with a theater, in which she hopes to make her acting debut. Susanna is beautiful, exciting, and every man's dream. To those who gather in the country store to see her make her daily "entrance", she brings a rainbow to a dreary world. However, to Norman Fuller, a shy and lonely young man, her beauty is too much to bear. In an angry outburst at her, precipitated by years of rejection and hurt feelings from the female sex, he takes out his frustration against all pretty young women. However, neither Fuller nor anyone else had realized just how fragile and vulnerable Susanna really is. She is alone in a new town, and no man her age will even go out of their way to be nice to her. Emotionally shattered by Fuller's outburst, Susanna decides to move out of her apartment, but on the day she is to leave, Fuller arrives at her door. After an emotionally draining conversation, Susanna forgives Fuller for his hurtful words, and the two end the night on friendlier terms.
One day, Tom, one of the main characters, is playing an early morning baseball game with his friends. However, he doesn't know that one of his classmates -- Jane Hennessey -- is going to play. He desperately tries to strike her out by hitting the ball. It lands towards the Grrlzillas and it rolls under Margaret's skirt. He gets tangled in the skirt and tries to convince the Grrlzillas that he just didn't want to be beat by a girl (which was true). The girls dismiss him as pathetic and go back to school calling him a "skirt perv". The chemistry between him and Emma is now really not good. Later on in the novel, Emma and Tom both try to jump onto the same school trampoline, but they have a serious collision and unknowingly switch bodies and souls. Emma is now Tom, and Tom Emma. The next morning, Emma wakes up with an erection (as she calls it, a "boner"). At first she thought it was a chipmunk in the bed with her. Tom discovers he's having Emma's menstruating period, and he has to wear Emma's bras. Eventually in the end, they have another collision and become themselves again.
Mia Thermopolis an average urban ninth grader. She lives in Greenwich Village with a single, liberal mom who is a semi-famous painter, but Mia puts on her Doc Martens one at a time, and the most exciting things she ever dreams about are kissing senior Josh Richter ("six feet of hotness") and passing Algebra. Mia's dad comes to town and drops a major bomb: he's not just a European politician as he's always led her to believe, but actually the prince of a small country. And Mia, his only heir, is now considered the crown princess of Genovia. She doesn't even know how to begin to cope: "I am so NOT a princess.... You never saw anyone who looked less like a princess than I do. I mean, I have really bad hair... and... a really big mouth and no breasts and feet that look like skis." Mia's troubles are worsened: her mom has started dating her algebra teacher, the paparazzi are showing up at school, and she has a fight with her best friend Lilly after this they don't talk for a while so they become distant from each other. Mia goes to her Grandmère's Plaza Hotel room in order to train to be a princess and she starts to develop into a great princess. Throughout story Mia also makes another friend named Tina, who is shunned because of her overprotective father, who makes her have a body guard.
The play takes place in London. Morose, a wealthy old man with an obsessive hatred of noise, has made plans to disinherit his nephew Dauphine by marrying. His bride Epicœne is, he thinks, an exceptionally quiet woman; he does not know that Dauphine has arranged the whole match for purposes of his own. The couple are married despite the well-meaning interference of Dauphine's friend True-wit. Morose soon regrets his wedding day, as his house is invaded by a charivari that comprises Dauphine, True-wit, and Clerimont; a bear warden named Otter and his wife; two stupid knights, La Foole and Daw; and an assortment of "collegiates," vain and scheming women with intellectual pretensions. Worst for Morose, Epicœne quickly reveals herself as a loud, nagging mate. Desperate for a divorce, Morose consults two lawyers (actually Dauphine's men in disguise), but they can find no grounds for ending the match. Finally, Dauphine promises to reveal grounds to end the marriage (in exchange, Morose must come to financial terms with him). The agreement made, Dauphine strips the female costume from Epicœne, revealing that the wife is, in fact, a boy. Morose is dismissed harshly, and the other ludicrous characters are discomfited by this revelation; Daw and Foole, for instance, had claimed to have slept with Epicœne.
In this much-anticipated prequel to Crown Duel, Vidanric Renselaeus, fifteen-year-old Marquis of Shevraeth, finds himself sent across the continent to a military academy in Marloven Hess, a kingdom known for its violent history. Vidanric is used to civilized life in pleasant Remalna—except that the evidence is increasingly clear that the civilization is only on the surface. Too many young, smart heirs have suffered accidents of late, and the evidence is beginning to point to the king, Galdran, who has grandiose plans for expansion. In Marloven Hess, no one can pronounce his real names, and they assume his title is his name. He becomes Shevraeth—discovering that there are no marquises or dukes or barons in this kingdom, and no one has the slightest interest in Remalna. Or in foreigners. Until very recently, the academy was closed to outsiders. But the king—also fifteen, and recently come to his throne after a nasty civil war—wants him there. Learning about command turns out to be very different than Shevraeth had assumed, and the Marlovens, who are going through political and social change at all levels, are not at all what he expected. He makes friends as well as enemies; experiences terror and laughter as well as challenges on the field and off. He discovers friendship, loyalty—and love. All the while greater events in the world are moving inexorably toward conflagration, drawing the smartest of the young people into key positions—whether they want it or not. They're going to have to be ready.
Four Polish scientists and a private detective become "Flame Breathers" and die; a car and a plane set speed records and are destroyed, the driver, pilot, and a reporter, killed; a Montreal police lab, the financier Singer's home, a bathtub with financier Henderlin in it all explode; a house in NJ, heated and lit without using electricity, gas, or oil, explodes. A beautiful woman with black hair thwarts the Justice Inc. team repeatedly. A small strange man seems to be implicated in the scheme. Benson initially finds no chemical explanation for the flames and explosions. He investigates, his aides playing relatively small roles. Benson is betrayed by his paralyzed face and his white hair. The plot is complex: two gangs, each backed by a financier, fight for control of a secret process, discovered by the four scientists, that can turn water into an energy source. The black-haired woman seeks justice for the death of the reporter, her brother, and gets it as Benson causes the gangs destroy one another. The small man, lab assistant to the four scientists, dies, taking the secret of getting energy from water to the grave with him.
Taylor Rusk is a star college quarterback and a can't-miss prospect in The League. Through various illegal means, North Texas is awarded an expansion franchise. As expected, the expansion Texas Pistols draft Rusk number one. The Pistols have a five-year plan to turn the team into champions, and getting Taylor Rusk ready is the key. But Rusk is on to the corruption and refuses to be a victim. With his college coach at the helm and "old league" legends mentoring him, Taylor Rusk plays The League's game until it's time for him to make his most daring move to bring it down. But along the way, Rusk is betrayed. One teammate, a chronic con man, becomes the Pistols' general manager and ultimately betrays him. Another teammate suffers a devastating knee injury. However, the surgery is botched. Rusk sees him get tossed aside and, due largely to steroid abuse, he murders his family and commits suicide. Five years later, the Texas Pistols are world champions, but Taylor Rusk has little time to celebrate. He's got to save the life of another victim: the woman he's fallen in love with &mdash; who's also the mother of his son. They ultimately take control of the Texas Pistols for him.
Mickle, once a common street urchin, is now the queen of Westmark. The kingdom is thriving, yet at the same time, it is strangely restless. Ghosts of the past lurk everywhere. The evil minister, Cabbarus, once banished from Westmark, is now plotting to seize the throne. Theo remembers a time when he was the famed Kestrel, fighting battles that threatened to kill his soul. Now he once again must join in the struggle. Who will at last command the fate of Westmark? One answer to that question is the people. The common people, mostly anonymous, rise up at the end, making the final overthrow of Cabbarus possible. The book raises moral questions, especially about choices, the effects of having power, and the evil that seems necessary to prosecute a war. Theo tries to keep out of the battles in the book, but finds that he can not. He vows to kill Cabbarus. (Theo had once saved his life in Westmark, the first of the trilogy.) In the end, many of the characters are dead, including Cabbarus, but not by the hand of Theo. A government, led by a council of commoners, begins to rise. Mickle, in one of her last acts as queen, proclaims that she and Theo are married. She sees that the two of them cannot remain in the country where she was queen. As the book ends, the couple leaves to travel the world together with their old friends, Las Bombas and Musket.
The story is set in 18th century Japan, and features a conflict between four very different characters - Oboko (nb, Obaku is a form of Zen), a poet of the wind and Buddhist monk; Izzi, court poet and extrovert; Lord Arishi, samurai and lord of the realm; and finally Matari, beautiful, intelligent, and on the run for her life. The story might be described as a love story - all three of the men are, in their own way, in love with Matari. Yet they each have their own outlook on life, and their own sense of honour and morality. While individually we might applaud them as good men and true, the meeting of the three results in tragedy. This is a comparatively traditional novel; the story runs in a linear fashion, and the plot is such as you might find in any other book. George Cockcroft uses his knowledge of Zen well, though, and the book gives an insight into the thinking of both Buddhist and Samurai thinking that feels well-rounded. Oboko survives the story and is later mentioned in The Book of the Die by the same author. The various ISBNs of the different editions are: * ISBN 0-246-10811-8 – January 1975 (Matari, hardcover) * ISBN 0-586-04116-8 – September 2, 1976 (Matari, paperback) * ISBN 1-4033-4796-4 – 27 November 2002 (White Wind, Black Rider, hardcover) * ISBN 1-4033-4795-6 – 27 November 2002 (White Wind, Black Rider, paperback)
Bodies of several murdered men are found in Istanbul and the oppressive air is evident in the city. Meanwhile Behiye, rebellious, full of teenage angst, oppressed by her conservative family, achieves well in her university entrance exams and gets the chance to enter prestigious Boğaziçi University. This, however, does not take her angst away, but oppressions endure. Behiye's life, longing to get rid of her angst is changed drastically when she meets Handan, a beautiful and naive girl of her age who lives with her beautiful call girl mother. In short time, Behiye becomes attached to Handan and moves into their apartment. The girls form and intense and unidentifiable relationship which has both romantic and sisterly implications. Their uniting relationship has to face social problems and is damaged by peer boys, academic expectations, economic difficulties, and most of all different cultural backgrounds. The story continues as step by step Handan pain-givingly (this is a word) realizes the impossibility of their relationship.
As volunteers clean up after a huge outdoor rock concert in Yorkshire in 1969, they discover the body of a young woman wrapped in a sleeping bag. She has been brutally murdered. The detective assigned to the case, Stanley Chadwick, is a hard-headed, strait-laced veteran of the Second World War. He could not have less in common with - or less regard for - young, disrespectful, long-haired hippies, smoking marijuana and listening to the pulsing sounds of rock and roll. But he has a murder to solve, and it looks as if the victim was somehow associated with the up-and-coming psychedelic pastoral band the Mad Hatters. In the present, Inspector Alan Banks is investigating the murder of a freelance music journalist who was working on a feature about the Mad Hatters for MOJO magazine. This is not the first time that the Mad Hatters, now aging rock superstars, have been brushed by tragedy. Banks finds he has to delve into the past to find out exactly what hornets' nest the journalist inadvertently stirred up.
The story takes place in Cutter High School, which prides itself heavily on the physical achievements of its students, and thrives on the winnings of the football and basketball teams. Many teachers there display favoritism toward star athletes, such as Mike Barbour, and turn a blind eye to the bullying that occurs, such as Barbour tormenting Chris Coughlin. Mr. Simet, a teacher, wants to start a swim team to avoid having to be an assistant coach for Wrestling. He encourages T.J., who formerly swam and was very talented, to join and recruit others. T.J. gets together six others to form a seven-man team: the mentally challenged Chris Coughlin; the obnoxious and extremely intelligent Dan Hole; the kind and talented bodybuilder/musician Tay-Roy Kibble; the rude and antagonistic Andy Mott; the quiet and generic Jackie Craig; and the obese Simon DeLong. All of them have predicaments, which they slowly reveal to each other as they grow to become friends. During the year, T.J. meets a little half-black girl named Heidi. Her step-dad is the drunkard Rich Marshall, who frequently abuses her and her mother, Alicia. T.J. helps his therapist, Georgia Brown, with Heidi, and they form a close bond.
The story is set in the backdrop of Pathan-Mughal conflicts that took place in south-western region of modern-day Indian state of Paschimbanga (West Bengal) during the reign of Akbar. Jagat Singh, a General of Mughal army and son of Raja Man Singh met Tilottama, daughter of Birendra Singha, a feudal lord of south-western Bengal in Mandaran (in modern-day Hooghly district, Paschimbanga) and they fell in love with each other. While they were preparing for a marriage ceremony, Katlu Khan, a rebel Pathan leader attacked Mandaran. Birendra Singha died in the battle and Jagat Singh was imprisoned along with Birendra’s widow Bimala and their daughter Tilottama. Katlu Khan’s daughter Ayesha saved Tilottama from her father’s lust, but Ayesha herself fell in love with Jagat Singh. Later, Bimala revenged her husband’s death by stabbing Katlu Khan. In the meantime, Man Singh signed a pact with the Pathans and they set Jagat Singh free. But Ayesha’s lover Osman challenged Jagat Singh in a duel which Jagat Singh won. Realising that Jagat Singh who was a Hindu prince would never marry a Muslim woman, Ayesha gave up hope for him, but she eventually helped Tilottama to get married to Jagat Singh.
Fed up with his family, Ralph hops onto his toy motorcycle (given to him by Keith in the first book, The Mouse and the Motorcycle), and speeds down the road away from the Mountain View Inn toward Happy Acres Camp, where he encounters Sam, a nosy watchdog, and is captured by a boy named Garfield (or Garf) and kept as a pet. Separated from his motorcycle, Ralph must endure life in a cage with an obnoxious hamster named Chum. Over time, Ralph and Garf form a relationship that is similar to the one Ralph had with Keith in the first book in the series. Ralph's adventures at Happy Acres Camp include escapades with an evil cat, the return of a missing watch, the escape from his cage, and being reunited with his beloved motorcycle. Ralph eventually begins feeling homesick and strikes a bargain with Garf: return the motorcycle and bring him back to the Mountain View Inn, in exchange for clearing Garf's name (the rest of the children at Happy Acres Camp believe Garf was the one who took the missing watch). Eventually the watch is returned, and Garf reassures Ralph that he will go back home the next day.
Night's Dark Terror is a wilderness scenario in which the player characters travel by river and over mountains, from the Grand Duchy of Karameikos to the chaotic lands. The characters encounter a town under siege by goblins, a ruined city, and a lost valley. The module teaches the Dungeon Master (DM) how to handle wilderness conditions, and includes new rules for weather. The module also includes statistics for eleven new monsters, and comes with a battle map and counters for use in staging a battle in one of the towns. The wilderness module is set in the area of Eastern Karameikos. According to White Dwarf reviewer Graeme Davis, much of the action in the module has to do with the secret society known as the Iron Ring. The module begins in a beleaguered farmstead. The PCs then explore more than of wilderness, with eighteen locations, including a number of mini-dungeons, a ruined city, a riverside village, a frontier town, and a lost valley, with the minions of the Iron Ring waiting for the PCs at every step.
The novel is set in Paris and narrated by the Mesmerist Pierre Pain. In April 1938 Pain is approached by Madame Reynaud, whose late husband he had failed to help, to assist the Peruvian poet César Vallejo who is in the hospital, afflicted with an undiagnosed illness and unable to stop hiccuping. Pain's attempts to reach and treat Vallejo are thwarted by skeptical doctors and two mysterious Spanish men who bribe him not to treat Vallejo. Though he accepts the bribe, Pain attempts to treat the poet but is barred from the hospital and loses contact with Madame Reynaud. He has several run-ins with friends, strangers, and old acquaintances, and finds himself lost in the hospital and later in a warehouse, chasing strangers through the rain, and watching ambiguous events unfold, but he is unable to make sense of any of these events. The novel ends with an "epilogue for voices" which offers brief biographical reminiscences, or perhaps obituaries, of the novel's main characters, which still fails to offer a resolution to the mystery.
Nin's usage of the word incest in this case is metaphorical, not literal. In other words, in this book the word "incest" describes a selfish love where one can appreciate in another only that which is similar to oneself. One is then only loving oneself, shunning all differences. At first, such a self-love can seem ideal because it is without fear and without risk. But eventually it becomes a sterile nightmare. Toward the end of the book, the character called "the modern Christ" puts Nin’s use of the word into context: “If only we could all escape from this house of incest, where we only love ourselves in the other." Nin was under the analysis of Otto Rank during the period of writing House of Incest. Rank was an early disciple of Freud, serving as the secretary and youngest member of his Vienna group, but had long since dissented from Freudian orthodoxy and developed his own theoretical school. Incest: From a Journal of Love"—The Unexpurgated Diary of Anaïs Nin (1932–1934) reveals that the two were also having an affair. Rank helped Anaïs edit House of Incest. He had experience with this topic, as Otto Rank's most famous book is The Trauma of Birth. House of Incest is largely an attempt by the narrator to cope with the shock of the trauma of birth. Anaïs Nin describes the process as akin to being "[e]jected from a paradise of soundlessness.... thrown up on a rock, the skeleton of a ship choked in
Clarissa Dalloway goes around London in the morning, getting ready to host a party that evening. The nice day reminds her of her youth spent in the countryside in Bourton and makes her wonder about her choice of husband; she married the reliable Richard Dalloway instead of the enigmatic and demanding Peter Walsh and she "had not the option" to be with Sally Seton. Peter reintroduces these conflicts by paying a visit that morning. Septimus Warren Smith, a veteran of World War I suffering from deferred traumatic stress, spends his day in the park with his Italian-born wife Lucrezia, where they are observed by Peter Walsh. Septimus is visited by frequent and indecipherable hallucinations, mostly concerning his dear friend Evans who died in the war. Later that day, after he is prescribed involuntary commitment to a psychiatric hospital, he commits suicide by jumping out of a window. Clarissa's party in the evening is a slow success. It is attended by most of the characters she has met in the book, including people from her past. She hears about Septimus' suicide at the party and gradually comes to admire the act of this stranger, which she considers an effort to preserve the purity of his happiness.
Odysseus (Ulysses) returns to Ithaca and decides to undertake new adventures after he quickly becomes unsatisfied with his quiet family life. First he travels to Sparta to save Helen, the wife of the king of Sparta Menelaus, whose abduction by Paris had led to the Trojan War. He goes to Crete where a conspiracy dethrones the king. There he abandons Helen and continues to Egypt where again a workers' uprising takes place. He leaves again on a journey up the Nile eventually stopping at the lake-source. Upon arrival his companions set up camp and he climbs the mountain in order to concentrate on his god. Upon his return to the lake he sets up his city based on the commandments of his religion. The city is soon destroyed by an earthquake. Odysseus laments his failure to understand the true meaning of god with the sacrifice of his companions. His life transforms into that of an ascetic. Odysseus meets Motherth (an incarnation of the Buddha), Kapetan Enas (English: Captain Sole), alias Don Quixote, and an African village fisherman, alias Jesus. He travels further south in Africa while constantly spreading his religion and fighting the advances of death. Eventually he travels to Antarctica and lives with villagers for a year until an iceberg kills him. His death is glorious as it marks his rebirth and unification with the world.
In Mozarteum in Salzburg in 1953 the main characters met a young Canadian prodigy who played the Goldberg Variations miraculously and who, they quickly came to realize, was a greater pianist than even their teacher -- indeed, "the most important piano virtuoso of the century," as the narrator puts it in the novel's opening sentence. The encounter with Gould affects both characters decisively for almost three decades, as they experience an endless series of personal and intellectual travails. In fact, Gould’s talent triggers the suicidal tendencies of his two colleagues: so great is the impact of Gould's genius on the other two that, even as it nourishes them, it destroys them: they realize that Gould represents an artistic ideal to which they cannot hope to aspire. So the narrator eventually decides to give up the piano in favour of philosophy, and spends much of his subsequent time composing a rambling, never-completed essay entitled "About Glenn Gould". Wertheimer, who had been a very promising virtuoso himself, follows suit, abandoning music and moving into the "human sciences", the meaning of which is left vague. Eventually, Wertheimer behaviour becomes more and more erratic and self-destructive; he alienates all his friends, and tyrannises his devoted sister. It was Gould who, with his "ruthless and open, yet healthy American-Canadian manner" first called Wertheimer, to his face, "The Loser" ("Der Untergeher" -- a much more evocative word, lit. "the one who goes under"). As Wertheimer comes to see the accuracy of this epithet, he gradually loses
The first section, which is itself the prologue describes the world of a pre-war Bucharest, as narrated by an aging, potentially dying, author while focusing on the improbable and explicitly impossible story of a homeless young man who serves as the stubborn center of progressively more absurd games of Russian Roulette which become progressively more peopled by the wealthy upper-crust of the capital. The second section brings alive a universe of children through a magical realist writing style that focuses upon a prepubescent messiah who has begun to lose his magical powers while working wonders for his young followers. Which has a famous scene that makes the reader feel voyeur into the world of Proust when the main character falls into "unbearable nostalgia" by virtue of a bright pink lighter. The third section is a bizarre exploration of gender boundaries and youthful angst narrated by a crestfallen young man who cross-dresses and goes down the road of suicide at the same time while overwhelmed by the memories of a highschool girlfriend. The final part of the main portion of this book is centered around Nana, a middle aged woman engaged in an affair with a college student, as well as her memories of being 12 years old, when she was visited by a mother and son pair of gigantic skeletons. The last portion of this novel focuses on a man who becomes obsessed with his car horn, the repercussions of which spiral far beyond his control. The last part of
Dance opens with the last year or so of their school days in 1921&ndash;22. We are also introduced to their Housemaster Le Bas and Nick's Uncle Giles. Lunching at the invitation of Stringham's mother, the glamorous Mrs Foxe, Nick meets Cdr. Buster Foxe, "a chic sailor", and Miss 'Tuffy' Weedon. On leaving school Jenkins visits the Templers, setting eyes for the first time on Templer's sullen sister Jean and meeting the older Sunny Farebrother and Jimmy Stripling. Later Nick is sent off to France to learn the language, staying at La Grenadière, where Widmerpool puts in an appearance, displaying unexpected powers of persuasion. The final chapter sees Nick at university where he enjoys afternoon tea with Professor Sillery and meets Mark Members for the first time, JG Quiggin, and Bill Truscott. A car outing with Templer, Bob Duport and Jimmy Brent turns to minor disaster when Templer drives them into a ditch. *Adapted in part from material published by the Anthony Powell Society with consent
The sole survivor of a massacre, Caladrius, nicknamed Rook, has been living with the bards of Luly since the day he was rescued from the smoldering remains of his home. Despite falling in love and having a son, Caladrius is unable to make peace with his memories, and so ventures into the world to discover how his family was destroyed - and why. He learns his true name: he is Raven Tourmalyne from the house of Griffin, which was crushed by Arioso Pellior, the patriarch of the house of Basilisk and tyrant of the city of Berylon. In Berylon, Caladrius, who takes the name of Griffin, enters Pellior's house as a music teacher for Pellior's decidedly un-musical daughter. As Griffin tutors Damiet Pellior for an upcoming opera, the city's musicians hatch their own plots. Armed with his picochet, a single-stringed instrument played by peasants, and a small bone pipe, Griffin challenges the Basilisk and exacts his revenge. But his revenge is not complete. Arioso Pellior is stricken, but not dead. Pellior names his other daughter, Luna, a powerful magician who has been his apprentice all her life, as his heir. Unexpectedly, Luna declares that thirty-seven years of torturing Tourmalyne House are enough. Hearing this, her father dies of anger. Luna begins to help Caladrius restore Tourmalyne House.
'The Secret of the Sirens takes place in the southern regions of a fictional Great Britain in the seaside town of Hescombe. Here we meet (presumed) 11-year-old Connie Lionheart, who is left in care by her parents to her Aunt, Evelyn. The story is about how Connie discovers that she has a special power, to communicate with animals. Not conversationally, but able to get to know who they really are, and sense their actual being. She feels comfortable, and has a sense of belonging with them. But the story is also about mythical creatures, as she discovers that her aunt is part of a hidden society that protects them from discovery. Now the society is in danger. Kullervo, a powerful and evil force, is gathering an army of creatures who want to reclaim their place on earth, and not be hampered by humans. They want to eradicate humans and create a new world they can live in. Connie discovers that she has an amazing power, and she, together with her friends and the Society for the Protection of Mythical Creatures, have to try to save the creatures from the threat of exposure.
Parker, an American CIA agent, is captured while on a mission in Bangkok. Sawyer, a lone CIA agent is sent on the same mission, code-named “Dragonfire”, to prevent another Southeast war. Sawyer tracks the missing Parker from the deadly underworld of Bangkok’s waterfront to the forbidden hill country of the Golden Triangle. He joins forces with Suong, a beautiful Eurasian resistance fighter and Toonsang, a treacherous opium trader, who leads them to the lair of Bhun Sa, the most powerful warlord in the opium trade. Sawyer kills Bhun Sa and he and Suong escape to abandoned temple ruins in Cambodia. To convince him she has not betrayed him, Suong tells of her survival of the Khmer Rouge’s Killing Fields. Sawyer is captured by the Khmer Rouge. Suong is revealed as a war criminal, the sister of Pranh, the notorious Brother Number Two of the Killing Fields. Vietnamese forces attack the Khmer Rouge, freeing Sawyer who takes Suong captive. After a fight on the Bangkok waterfront, during which Sawyer kills Vasnasong, the billionaire businessman behind the plot, Sawyer turns Suong over to the Cambodian resistance. In an epilogue, the story of Suong’s brutal death on a ship at the hands of her former victims is revealed.
The book tells the story of Victoria Cope, following her experience of hosting a home child - an orphan from England sent to Canada by Barnardo's, essentially as a servant, receiving care and education in exchange. The Copes end up with a girl one year older than Victoria, named Marianna Wilson. She tells Victoria about her life in England, and as they become friends Victoria becomes more aware of some of the discrimination that Marianna faces from the local children, as well as from members of Victoria's own family, notably her oldest brother, David. Something seems to be distracting Marianna and one night Victoria wakes up and finds Marianna in the barn with her younger brother, Jasper, who had escaped from the home where he was placed after his guardian whipped him and broke his arm. The family must decide what to do with Jasper, which is made difficult by David's attitude towards the home children. The book ends with an epilogue detailing where Marianna and Victoria went in their lives, and explaining how the home child program worked. The orphan becomes rich and famous.
Kino lives with his family on a farm on the side of a mountain in Japan while his friend, Jiya, lives in the fishing village below. Though everyone in the area has heard of the Tsunami no one suspects that when the next one comes, it will wipe out Jiya's entire family and fishing village below the mountain. Jiya soon must leave his family behind in order to keep the fisherman traditions alive. Jiya, now orphaned, struggles to overcome his sadness is adopted into Kino's family. He and Kino live like brothers and Jiya takes on the life of a farmer. . Even when the wise Old Gentleman offers Jiya a wealthy life at his rich castle, Jiya refuses. Though Jiya is able to find happiness again in his adopted family, particularly with Kino's younger sister, Setsu, Jiya wishes to live as a fisherman again as he comes of age. When Jiya tells Kino that he wishes to marry Setsu and return to the fishing village, Kino fears that Jiya and Setsu will suffer and it is safer for them to remain on the mountain as a farmer, thinking of the potential consequences should another big wave come. However, Jiya reveals his understanding that it is in the presence of danger that one learns to be brave, and to appreciate how wonderful life can be.
Phileas Fogg is a mysterious British gentleman who lives with his valet Passepartout at No. 7 Saville-Row in Burlington Gardens during the latter half of the 19th century. Unbeknownst to his peers, he is also the immortal foster child of a race of humanoid aliens known as the Eridani. A man of great intellect and affluence, Fogg enters into a wager with a fellow Eridanian citing that he can circumnavigate the globe in exactly eighty days. Although witnesses feel that his claim is little more than the boasting of a rich eccentric, Fogg is in fact undertaking a secret mission on behalf of his Eridanian colleagues. Along with Passepartout, Fogg begins a quest to find a piece of stolen alien technology – a teleportation device that had recently fallen into the hands of the Eridani's rivals, an alien race known as the Capellas. His journey brings him face to face with the infamous sea scourge Captain Nemo, a Capellan agent who is also known in British circles by his nom de guerre – James Moriarty. The two combatants match wits with one another at several key locations, including the mysterious ghost ship known as the Mary Celeste. The journey climaxes with a final battle at Fogg's home in London, mere moments before meeting the deadline required to win his world-spanning wager.
The novel tells the story of Friedrich Löwenberg, a young Jewish Viennese intellectual, who, tired with European decadence, joins an Americanized Prussian aristocrat named Kingscourt as they retire to a remote Pacific island (it is specifically mentioned as being part of the Cook Islands, near Raratonga). Stopping in Jaffa on their way to the Pacific, they find Palestine a backward, destitute and sparsely populated land, as it appeared to Herzl on his visit in 1898. Löwenberg and Kingscourt spend the following twenty years on the island, cut off from civilization. As they pass through Palestine on their way back to Europe, they discover a land drastically transformed, showcasing a free, open and cosmopolitan modern society, and boasting a thriving cooperative industry based on state-of-the-art technology. In the two decades that have passed, European Jews have rediscovered and re-inhabited their Altneuland, reclaiming their own destiny in the Land of Israel. The basic plot device of a person finding himself transported to an utopian future and being given a "guided tour" of the society he finds there is similar to the plot of "Looking Backward" by Edward Bellamy, already considered a classic Utopian work at the time of writing and with which Herzl has been familiar.
La Vendetta is a short work relating the tragic fate of Ginevra Piombo, the daughter of proud Corsican immigrants, who has the misfortune of falling in love with another Corsican Luigi Porta. When it becomes known that Luigi is the sole survivor of a massacre in which the rest of his family were the victims of a bloody vendetta with Ginevra's family, Ginevra's father Bartolomeo is determined to complete the act of vengeance by having him killed. But Ginevra refuses to yield to her father's demands and she and Luigi are married. Over the following years the pair eke out a miserable existence, dogged by hunger and poverty, while Ginevra's wealthy father refuses to lift a hand to support her: it is as much as he can do to refrain from murdering Luigi. Ginevra gives birth to a child, but she and the child die on the very day that Monsieur Piombo finally relents and decides to assist the impoverished couple. Before he can act, however, Luigi visits him and gives him the tresses of his deceased daughter. "Dead! Our two families were doomed to exterminate each other. Here is all that remains of her," he says, laying Ginevra's long black hair upon the table. Ginevra's parents are shaken, as though a stroke of lightning has blasted them. Luigi departs. "He has spared me a shot, for he is dead," says Bartolomeo, slowly, gazing on the ground at his feet.
The novel began with an introductory chapter about the graduation day from kindergarten of Maya, Lea’s daughter. A program and a celebration were held. In the beginning, everything in Lea’s life was going smoothly – her life in connection with her children, with friends of the opposite gender, and with her volunteer work for a human rights organization. But Lea’s children were both growing-up – and Lea could see their gradual transformation. There were the changes in their ways and personalities: Maya’s curiosity was becoming more obvious every day, while Ojie was crossing the boundaries from boyhood to teenage to adulthood. A scene came when Lea’s former husband came back to persuade Ojie to go with him to the United States. Lea experienced the fear of losing both her children, when the fathers of her children decide to take them away from her embrace. She also needed to spend more time for work and with the organization she was volunteering for. In the end, both of Lea’s children decided to choose to stay with her – a decision that Lea never forced upon them. Another graduation day of students was the main event in the novel’s final chapter, where Lea was the guest-of-honor. Lea delivered a speech that discusses the topic of how life evolves, and on how time consumes itself so quickly, as fast as how human beings grow, change, progress and mature. Lea leaves a message to her audience that a graduation day is not an end because
Mma Ramotswe and her new husband settle down to married life with their foster-children, but problems are piling up. At Mr J.L.B. Matekoni's own house, the tenant is running an illegal drinking den. Mma Ramotswe's violent ex-husband Note Mokote reappears. Then Charlie, the apprentice, gets entangled with a wealthy married woman. Help arrives in the person of Mr Polopetsi, whom Mma Ramotswe accidentally knocks off his bicycle with her van. He has been unemployed following a spell in prison after what appears to have been a miscarriage of justice, and Mma Ramotswe persuades her husband to employ him out of guilt and sympathy, but he proves an asset to the garage. Mma Makutsi's love prospects improve when she starts dancing lessons and is partnered with another student, Mr Radiphuti. At first she tries to avoid him, as he is awkward and stammers, but he turns out to be a kind and gentle man and a romance begins. She removes some of Mma Ramotswe's burden of worry by solving an important fraud investigation on her own, and manoeuvring Charlie back to work. Mr Radiphuti's father enlists the help of Mma Ramotswe to put a proposal of marriage from his shy son to Mma Makutsi, and the two become engaged.
The world is controlled by the US/UN, a sort of semi-benign meta-dictatorship which doesn't rule directly so much as enforce a series of basic laws on a vast number of microstates. Many of the microstates are in a near-constant state of low-intensity warfare. Among the laws enforced on them is a prohibition on certain directions of research, such as intelligence augmentation or artificial intelligence; precisely what is prohibited is of course secret, and as violation of the prohibitions will result in the swift and efficient death of everyone directly involved, scientific research is a dangerous proposition at best. The main characters - a trotskyist mercenary, a libertarian teenager from a fundamentalist microstate, and an idealistic scientist - find themselves caught up at the center of a global revolution against the US/UN. The revolution was planned, and partially automated using financial software, in order to break out when a certain set of conditions were reached. The stakes are raised at the end of the book, when it is revealed that the autonomous financial software has evolved into an intelligent form, which might cause the paranoid US/UN to make a 'clean break' with the earth, knocking the planet back to the stone age with the orbital defense lasers.
The first dynasty, the Gearys, are a glamorous and rich family, similar to the Kennedys, who have been a power in America since the Reconstruction. The book examines them through the eyes of the young woman who marries Mitchell Geary, the scion of the clan. It also examines the beginnings of the family's power and its links to the Barbarossa clan. The Barbarossas are a family of godlike beings. The two parents, Cesaria and Nicodemus, came into existence during the Bronze Age, somewhere between Canaan and the city of Samarkand. They have since had four children, though both have been in active relationships with others in the same time. Of the four children, one is a lesbian, one is overweight, one has spent time in a mental institution, and the eldest, Galilee, is held to the Geary family by an oath going back to the American Civil War. Nicodemus also fathered a child, the narrator, with a human woman. Eventually, the link between the families is revealed, with several deaths. Although several plot threads spin out of the book, and Barker has promised at least one sequel, none have been written, and it is left to the imagination of the reader to work out what happens next. ISBN 0-00-617805-7rm
60-year-old Nathan Glass returns to Brooklyn after his wife has left him. He is recovering from lung cancer and is looking for "a quiet place to die". In Brooklyn he meets his nephew, Tom, whom he has not seen in several years. Tom has seemingly given up on life and has resigned himself to a string of meaningless jobs as he waits for his life to change. They develop a close friendship, entertaining each other in their misery, as they both try to avoid taking part in life. When Lucy, Tom's young niece who initially refuses to speak, comes into their lives there is suddenly a bridge between their past and their future that offers both Tom and Nathan some form of redemption. The Brooklyn Follies contains the classic elements of a Paul Auster novel. The main character is a lonely man, who has suffered an unfortunate reversal. The narrative is based on sudden and randomly happening events and coincidences. "It is a book about survival" as Paul Auster says. The novel was published in Danish in May 2005, under the name Brooklyn Dårskab. It was published in English in November 2005. The Traditional Chinese version appeared in October 2006 with the title slightly altered as Mr. Nathan in Brooklyn.
In an alternative history, the United States lost the American Revolutionary War, George Washington was shot as a traitor, and America is still, in 1973, under the control of the British Empire. The divergence point between this world and our own occurred far earlier, however, when the Moors won the battle of Navas de Tolosa on the Iberian peninsula, on July 16, 1212. Thus it was that Spain was unable to become unified, owing to the survival of an Islamic presence in its territory, and therefore could not finance the expedition of Christopher Columbus in 1492. Instead, it was John Cabot who discovered America, just a few years later. The protagonist, Captain Augustine Washington, is a direct descendant of George Washington, and labors in his 'traitorous' shadow. Captain Washington and Sir Isambard Brassey-Brunel (descendant of Isambard Kingdom Brunel) get together to link the heart of the British Empire with its far-flung Atlantic colony in North America, although they fall out over Augustine's wooing of Isabard's young daughter, Iris, and as a result of disputes over engineering techniques. However, the two are reconciled on Sir Isambard's deathbed, and the lovers later marry. Detective Richard Tracy also makes an appearance, as do 'Lord' Amis and 'Reverend' Aldiss.
The play has four main characters: Dani, Tim, Lewis and Jan. At the beginning, Dani (short for Danielle), a girl of seventeen, has just come home after spending some time in a clinic for eating disorders. Her mother, Jan, is trying to cope with the problems of looking after Dani after separating from her husband. Dani starts talking to people in an internet chat room and gets to know Tim, a man in his thirties. Dani pretends to be an eleven-year-old boy, which Tim believes. Tim is a man in his thirties who has a taste for young boys and has spent some time in prison. He and Dani agree to meet in a park and subsequently become friends. Dani also meets a lonely young man called Lewis in the chat room. Lewis eventually becomes jealous of the friendship between Dani and Tim and threatens to expose Tim as a pedophile. Tim, anticipating a visit from the police, lends his laptop to Dani for safekeeping. Dani then finds a video on the laptop which appears to depict the rape of a young boy. The play climactically ends with the harrowing sound of the boy being raped...
A murder in 17th-century Oxford is related from the contradictory points of view of four of the characters, all of them unreliable narrators. The setting of the novel is 1663, just after the restoration of the monarchy following the English Civil War, when the authority of King Charles II is not yet settled, and conspiracies abound. Most of the characters are historical figures. Two of the narrators are the mathematician John Wallis and the historian Anthony Wood. Other characters include the philosopher John Locke, the scientists Robert Boyle and Richard Lower, spymaster John Thurloe, and inventor Samuel Morland. The plot is at first centred on the death of Robert Grove but later takes in the conspiracies of John Mordaunt and William Compton (of Compton Wynyates), and the politics of Henry Bennet and Lord Clarendon. Furthermore, the characters that are fictional are nonetheless drawn from real events. The story of Sarah Blundy incorporates that of Anne Greene, while Jack Prestcott is involved in events based on the life of Richard Willis (of the Sealed Knot). The book is an epistolary novel. The accounts are written many years after the events they describe, after Thomas Ken gained his Bishopric but before the death of Henry Bennet. This dates them to 1685, the last year of Charles' reign. A contrast portrayed in the novel is, on one hand, a philosophy based on ancient and medieval learning, and, on the other, the scientific method that was beginning to be applied in physics, chemistry and
In the first book, a wealthy arms manufacturer comes to a black magician, Theron Ware, with a strange request: he wishes to release all the demons from hell for one night to see what might happen. The book includes a lengthy description of the summoning ritual, and a detailed description of the grotesque demons as they appear. Tension between Ware and Catholic white magicians arises over the terms and conditions of a covenant that provides for observers and limitations on interference with demonic workings. Black Easter ends with Baphomet announcing to the participants that the demons can not be compelled to return to hell: the War is over, and God is dead. The Day After Judgment develops and extends the characters from the first book. It suggests that God may not be dead, or that demons may not be inherently self-destructive, as something appears to be restraining the actions of the demons upon Earth. In a lengthy Miltonian speech at the end of the novel, Satan Mekratrig explains that, compared to humans, demons are good, and that if perhaps God has withdrawn Himself, then Satan beyond all others was qualified to take His place and, if anything, would be a more just god. It has been suggested that Blish got the name for his black magician from the titular character in Harold Frederic's 1896 novel, The Damnation of Theron Ware.
A waiter at Rusterman's Restaurant turns up at Wolfe's front door late one night, claiming that a man is going to kill him. Shortly after Archie puts him in one of the spare bedrooms, the waiter dies when a bomb planted in his coat pocket explodes. Wolfe, outraged at the thought of such a violent act taking place in his own house, resolves to find the murderer without sharing any information with Inspector Cramer. Soon Wolfe and Archie find themselves investigating two additional murders: the earlier killing of a customer at Rusterman's, and the subsequent death of the waiter's daughter. For much of the story, Stout leads the reader to believe that the central murder mystery is related to the Watergate scandal. Ultimately, Wolfe discovers that the killer is one of his closest associates, a character who had been appearing in Nero Wolfe mysteries for over forty years. A Family Affair is an unusual Nero Wolfe mystery in that Archie reveals his (correct) opinion of the killer's identity well before Wolfe does so in the closing chapters.
The book draws attention to the numerical significance of the 2006 global oil production figure: of crude oil per day is equivalent to one thousand barrels per second. He believes the transcendence of this consumption threshold marks the beginning of a historically significant “energy break point” when oil’s dominant position as a primary energy source is no longer tenable. The book examines industrial society's "addiction" to oil in its past, present and future aspects. The history of humankind’s ongoing adoption and abandonment of energy sources – wood, coal, tallow, whale oil, kerosene, etc. – illustrates a “evolutionary energy cycle”. This cycle is evident today in the problems facing the oil industry. At the time of the book’s publication, various factors — ranging from unrest in the Middle East, a “demand shock” from India and China, exceptionally elevated energy commodity prices and climate change anxiety — weakened oil’s leadership amongst all primary energy sources. The author does not commit to the inevitability of any one particular future outcome, but paints various scenarios that could lead to a peaceful and profitable resolution of the break point.
Maigret investigates the circumstances when a homeless tramp is recovered from the Seine, after being attacked and badly wounded. The tramp proves to be a former doctor, known to fellow tramps as 'The Doc', who abandoned his family twenty years previously to work in Gabon, but returned to Paris to live rough, mainly under various bridges. Thanks to Madame Maigret's sister, who lives in Mulhouse, Maigret learns more of the family background. His wife, estranged but not divorced, is persuaded to visit him in hospital, but displays no affection or interest in a reconciliation. The tramp, identified as François Keller, was rescued by Jef van Houtte, a Belgian barge owner, and whilst in hospital, refuses to talk. But Maigret suspects that Keller knows his attacker and is keeping quiet for a good reason. He also believes that the Belgian is not telling him the whole story. Under intense interrogation, van Houtte eventually confesses that many years ago he was responsible for the death by drowning of his father-in-law and that Keller was a witness. But Keller still won't say anything, and Maigret is forced to release the Belgian for lack of evidence. Keller returns to his life on the streets.
Igraine lives in an old castle with her family, magicians who possess powerful books of magic. Her older brother Albert is following in the family line, but Igraine plans to be a knight one day, even though she feels there is not much adventure to be had at home these days. Her ancestors, though, had warded off many attempts to steal the books of magic. On her 12th birthday, Igraine's parents give her a magical suit of armor, but in the process, they are turned into pigs by mistake. Matters get worse when the next-door Baroness's castle is taken over by Osmond the Greedy, who wants to take the magical books so he can overthrow the king. Igraine and her brother must find a way to defend the castle from Osmond's siege while keeping their parents' condition secret and searching for the missing ingredient for their restoration to human form. Albert handles the castle's magical defenses while Igraine leaves to find the missing ingredient. She finds the ingredient and some assistance, in the form of the Sorrowful Knight of the Mount of Tears, who not only agrees to help her return home but also begins teaching her about the rules of chivalry, and eventually helps Igraine and her family end the siege.
Teenager Sania Mirza completed a superb week at the Hyderabad Open by becoming the first Indian in history to win a WTA singles title. In front of a delirious home crowd, the 18-year-old battled past Alyona Bondarenko of the Ukraine 6-4 5-7 6-3. Mirza, ranked 134 in the world, sunk to her knees in celebration after serving out the match against Bondarenko. "It is a big moment in my career and I would like to thank everyone who has been a part of my effort," she said. "This win has made me believe more in myself and I can now hope to do better in the coming days. "I wanted to win this tournament very badly since it was in my hometown." At the Australian Open in January, Mirza became the first Indian woman to reach the third round of a Grand Slam before losing to eventual champion Serena Williams. And a year ago, she became the youngest Indian to win a professional title by claiming the doubles at the Hyderabad Open. Mirza, playing in her first WTA final, began nervously in front of a raucous home crowd - committing three double faults in her opening service game. But from 0-2 down, Mirza broke serve twice in a row and held on to her advantage to take the first set. In a see-saw second set, Bondarenko raced into a 5-2 lead and though Mirza hauled herself level, the Ukrainian broke again before finally levelling the match. Mirza rediscovered the aggressive
Ahmed 'Mido' Hossam has made another apology to the Egyptian people in an attempt to rejoin the national team. The 21-year-old told a news conference in Cairo on Sunday that he is sorry for the problems that have led to his exclusion from the Pharaohs since July last year. Mido said: "There isn't much I have to say today, all there is to say is that I came specially from England to Egypt to rejoin the national team and to apologise for all my mistakes." Mido was axed by former coach Marco Tardelli after failing to answer a national call-up, claiming he had a groin injury. But he then played in a friendly for his club AS Roma within 24 hours of a World Cup qualifying match at home to Cameroon last September. Mido added: "It's not my right to give orders and say when I want to play ... at the same time I will always make sure that I put the national's team's matches as my top priority. "I feel that the national players are playing with a new spirit as I saw them play against Belgium (Egypt won 4-0 on Wednesday) and I simply want to add to their success. "I do confess that I was rude to the Egyptian press at times but now I have gained more experience and know that I will never go anywhere without the press's support. "Many of the international stars like David Beckham and (Zinedine) Zidane had the press opposing
Two moments of magic from Brian O'Driscoll guided Ireland to a workmanlike victory against Italy. A pair of classic outside breaks from the Ireland captain set up tries for Geordan Murphy and Peter Stringer. Italy led 9-8 early in the second half but Stringer's try gave Ireland a lead they never lost. The hosts cut the gap to 18-12 with 10 minutes left and nearly scored through Ludovico Nitoglia, but Denis Hickie's try ensured an Irish victory. Italy came flying out of the blocks and took the lead through a Luciano Orquera penalty after seven minutes. It could have been better for the hosts but the fly-half missed two kickable penalties and Ireland drew level with a Ronan O'Gara penalty midway through the first half. The Italians were driving at the heart of the Irish defence and, for the first quarter, the Irish pack struggled to secure any ball for their talented backs. When they finally did, just before the half-hour mark, O'Driscoll promptly created a sparkling try for Murphy. The Ireland captain ran a dummy scissors and made a magical outside break before drawing the full-back and putting the diving Murphy in at the corner. O'Gara missed the twice-taken conversion and the visitors found themselves trailing once again. Roland de Marigny took over the kicking duties for Italy from the hapless Orquera, and he landed a penalty either side of the break to edge Italy into a 9-8 lead. The only Ireland player offering a real threat was O'Driscoll,
Wales fly-half Stephen Jones admitted he was happy to hand Gavin Henson responsibility for taking the match-winning kick against England. Jones had missed three earlier shots at goal when Wales, 9-8 down, were awarded a long-range penalty with four minutes left in Cardiff. "I knew the percentages of Gavin reaching it were far higher than me," Jones said. "When he said he wanted it, there were no problems." Jones had seen a long-range effort fall a whisker under the crossbar on the hour, before Charlie Hodgson put England in front with 10 minutes left. "I looked at where it was and I knew I was going to struggle to make it," Jones added. "I said to Gareth (Thomas, the Wales captain) 'This is touch and go.' It was out of my range and obviously Gavin is phenomenal when it comes to distance. He was confident and fancied it. "There were no questions that he'd miss it the way he was playing. He had a superb game." Jones was happy to hail Henson's heroic contribution to Wales' first win over England in Cardiff since 1993. "Physically he's a specimen: he's a balanced player, he glides when he runs and obviously he's got a great kicking game as well," Jones said. "His defence was superb, he made some great hits and he had a great game. "I'm glad he's Welsh." Victory over England for the first time since 1999 will no doubt fuel expectations of what Wales might achieve in this year's
Ryan Giggs will captain Wales as he wins his 50th cap in Wednesday's friendly against Hungary in Cardiff. John Toshack, in his first game as coach after succeeding Mark Hughes, admits he is surprised that Giggs has only just reached the landmark. "With the games he's played for United, proportionately it doesn't seem that many for Wales," Toshack said. "But he's one of the greatest of all Welsh internationals and on his 50th cap it's appropriate he's captain." Giggs admits he had briefly considered retirement from the international game, but is now targetting playing for Wales in the 2008 European Championships. The Manchester United wing revealed how club manager Sir Alex Ferguson talked him into extending his Wales career. "I briefly discussed my international future with Sir Alex, but he urged me to carry on," Giggs said. "He feels, like myself, that I have no weight problems and keep myself fit, so in three or four years' time I will be able to play in the European finals if we get there. "The manager has always wanted me to play for my club and country and he was keen for me to continue because I am fit enough." Giggs admits he was wavering and considering joining the likes of former Wales skipper Gary Speed and United team-mate Paul Scholes in committing the remaining years of his career to club football. But Giggs is now focussed on making the Toshack era even more successful than the time Hughes spent at the
Martin O'Neill hopes to block Stilian Petrov's call-up by Bulgaria during Celtic's busy festive programme. The Celtic manager does not view the friendly against Valenciana - a region of Spain - on 28 December as important. "I can't say I was overly pleased at the fixture being played just after Christmas," said O'Neill. "We will have to speak with the Bulgarian FA. It's their prerogative for them to arrange a fixture and our prerogative how we handle it." Bulgaria's game comes between Celtic's Boxing Day meeting with Hearts and their 2 January fixture against Livingston. O'Neill believes the extra game will not help a midfielder whose season has already been affected by injury. "They have organised a game at a rather awkward time," he added. "When we were out playing Barcelona, I spoke with the Bulgarian manager, Hristo Stoichkov, and he mentioned this game to me. "We pay his wages, we are the ones that if an awkward fixture is going to be played at some stage or another it should be to our benefit, rather than anyone else. "I have said this before, but Bulgaria are the one nation who seem to organise a lot of friendly games."
Top-seeded Americans Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the SAP Open. Agassi endured early problems against left-handed Dane Kenneth Carlsen before sealing a 7-5 6-1 victory. And world number three Roddick dropped a set to Korean player Hyung-Taik Lee, before pulling out a 6-3 3-6 6-2 win in San Jose, California. Seventh seed Jurgen Melzer came through 6-3 6-3 against Xavier Malisse - winner in Delray Beach last week. Frenchman Cyril Saulnier, meanwhile, fired 19 aces to secure a 6-1 7-6 win over Czech qualifier Tomas Zib. Roddick broke a racket in frustration in the third game of the second set. and afterwards was unimpressed with his form. "I'm not playing great," he said. "But I'm through and I'm going to keep battling. "A lot of people are under the assumption that it's easy to play well every week and it's not." It is the 12th time in 13 appearances at the event that Agassi, now 34, has progressed to the quarter-final stage. He came from 0-40 down in the opening game to hold serve and gradually wore Carlsen down after attacking his backhand. Agassi also employed several lobs and charged to the net to unsettle the 31-year-old Dane, ranked 88th in the world. "As the match went on, I got real patient and waited for my opportunities and felt pretty good," said Agassi.
Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan heaped praise on Italy after seeing his side stutter to a 28-17 victory in Rome. "It was a hell of a tough game," said O'Sullivan. "We struggled in the first half because we hadn't the football. "Italy played really well. They handled the ball well in terms of kicking it, if that's not an oxymoron. "We said before the game that it might take until 10 minutes from the end for this game to be won, and that's how it turned out." Ireland struggled to cope with Italy's fierce start and were indebted to skipper Brian O'Driscoll, who set up tries for Geordan Murphy and Peter Stringer. "We had our first attack in the Italian half after 22 minutes," said O'Sullivan. "We had a good return, with three first-half possessions in their half and we scored twice. "The second half was about spending more time in their half." Scrum-half Peter Stringer was also glad that Ireland escaped wtih a victory. "All credit to them," he told BBC Sport. "We knew it would be tough coming to Rome. They always give us a tough game here and they showed a lot of spirit. "They had a lot of ball in the first half but we got a few scores when we got into their 22."
All Blacks captain Tama Umaga has warned the British and Irish Lions will be his most fearsome opponents yet ahead of their summer tour. But Umaga, in England for Saturday's IRB Rugby Aid match, also backed New Zealand to win the three-Test series against the Lions. He told BBC Sport: "It's potentially the most fearsome line-up I've ever come up against. They're awesome. "But I'd back us all the way to beat them when they come over." Lions boss Sir Clive Woodward is set to announce his squad for the June-July tour next month. When Woodward was appointed last year, it was widely believed he would rely heavily on his former England players. But Umaga said: "He'd be hard pushed to do that now considering the shape of the Six Nations. "Don't get me wrong, England have got a lot of talented guys and I'm sure there are some of them who'll make the Lions Test XV. "But you can't disguise Wales and Ireland in particular. Some of the tries they've scored have been great. I'll admit it'll be fairly awesome lining up against the likes of Brian O'Driscoll." Umaga will meet O'Driscoll in Saturday's Rugby Aid match at Twickenham, with the Irish captain leading the Northern Hemisphere side. O'Driscoll is among a host of players in the Northern Hemisphere squad, coached by Woodward, that are tipped for Lions call-ups. "It'll be good for us to get an early idea of some of these guys, although a lot can change
Bath prop Duncan Bell has been added to England's 30-man squad to face Ireland in the RBS Six Nations. And with Phil Vickery sidelined for at least six weeks with a broken arm and Julian White out with a neck injury, Bell could make his England debut. Bell, 30, had set his sights on an international career with Wales. But last December, the International Rugby Board confirmed that he could only be eligible for England as he had travelled on tour with them in 1998. England coach Andy Robinson could take a gamble and call inexperienced Sale Sharks prop Andrew Sheridan into his front row. But Sheridan favours the loosehead side of the scrum and a more likely scenario is for uncapped Bell - who was among the tryscorers when England A beat France A 30-20 nine days ago - to be drafted in. Robinson also has an injury worry over centre Olly Barkley, who withdrew from Bath's starting line-up to face Gloucester last weekend. He was due to have a hospital scan on Monday, while Gloucester centre Henry Paul, who started at fly-half against Bath, limped out at Kingsholm because of an ankle problem. Despite Barkley's three missed penalties in the 18-17 defeat against France, he is expected to retain his place at inside centre, although Leicester's in-form prospect Ollie Smith would be an obvious replacement. Bath coach John Connolly rates Barkley as no better than a 50/50 chance to make the Dublin trip. Uncapped fly-half Andy Goode has
World 5000m champion Eliud Kipchoge won the 9.2km race at the View From Great Edinburgh Cross Country. The Kenyan, who was second when Newcastle hosted the race last year, was in front from the outset. Ethiopian duo Gebre Gebremariam and Dejene Berhanu made last-gasp efforts to overtake him, but Kipchoge responded and a burst of speed clinched victory. Gavin Thompson was the first Briton in 12th place while Nick McCormick held of his British rivals to win the 4km race. The Morpeth Harrier led from the end of the first lap and ended Mike Skinner and Andrew Baddeley's hopes with a surge in the lasp lap. "My training has gone so well I wasn't really worried about the opposition asI knew I was in great shape," said McCormick, who now hopes to earn a 1,500m place in the British team for the World Championships in Helsinki. In the women's race, Ethiopia's Tirunesh Dibaba won a battle with world cross country champion Benita Johnson to retain her title. Australian Johnson, who shocked her African rivals in Brussels last March, looked to be on course for another win in the 6.2km race. But world 5000m champion Dibaba make a telling strike for the finishing line in the final 20 metres. Britons Kathy Butler and Hayley Yelling were out of contention early on.
Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard has reiterated his desire to stay at Anfield and win trophies with the club. The 24-year-old England midfielder is determined to see out his contract, despite reported interest from Chelsea. He said: "I'm signed here for this season and another two so there is no situation. There's a lot of speculation but that's not down to me. "As club captain all I want to do is help us get back up the table and into the Champions League again." Gerrard looked set to move to Chelsea during the summer and speculation of a switch to Stamford Bridge has again arisen, with the January transfer window approaching. He raised doubts about his Reds future when he said he wanted the club to prove they were title challengers in the very near future or he might leave. Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez has insisted that Gerrard has promised him he wants to stay at Anfield. Benitez said: "I said to Steven that I was sure he wanted to stay here and he said 'I do'. "I then said to him 'Look, if you want to win titles, you want medals and you want Liverpool to have these things then I am going to need your help'. "I really think he wants to stay so now what we must do is make the squad stronger for him." Meanwhile, Gerrard has urged the Anfield board to sign Real Madrid striker Fernando Morientes in the January transfer window. Morientes, 28, has already
Aston Villa boss David O'Leary signed a three-and-a-half year contract extension on Thursday, securing his future at the club until summer 2008. O'Leary's future was in question, but Villa chairman Doug Ellis said he was happy to secure the deal. "David's record since his arrival in 2003 is excellent and he shares the board's amibitions in taking this club forward," he told Villa's website. "For this reason it was important we got this right." O'Leary put pen to paper after deals were sorted for his right-hand men Roy Aitken and Steve McGregor. "It was important to me Roy and Steve, an integral part of my team, should stay for the same time," O'Leary said on Thursday ahead of signing his new deal. "Someone has to try and put Aston Villa back where they should belong and I'm up for the challenge."Earlier in December, there were rumours O'Leary would quit if he is not offered a new deal before the end of the season. But he denied that, saying he was happy to take on the challenge of improving Villa's fortunes in the long term. "I want to make sure by the end of the five years I would have been in charge that Villa are achieving top six finishes in the Premiership on a regular basis," said O'Leary, who took over at Villa Park in May 2003. "But to achieve that, and take the next step forward, we do need to bring in quality players. "I would like a couple
A late header by teenager Danny Graham earned Middlesbrough a battling draw with Charlton at the Riverside. Matt Holland had put the visitors ahead in the 14th minute after his shot took a deflection off Franck Queudrue. But Middlesbrough peppered the Charlton goal after the break and Chris Riggott stroked home the equaliser. Shaun Bartlett's strike put Charlton back in front but that lead lasted just six minutes before Graham rushed onto Queudrue's pass to head home. The match burst to life from the whistle and Charlton defender Hermann Hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minutes. Hreidarsson received Danny Murphy's free-kick from the right but he crashed his free header wide of the far post. The Iceland international looked such a danger the Boro bench could be heard issuing frantic instructions to mark him. Charlton's early pressure paid off when Bartlett received a long ball from Talal El Karkouri in the box and laid it off to Holland who buried his right-footed strike. Szilard Nemeth, recalled in place of Joseph-Desire Job, was twice denied his chance to get Middlesbrough back on level terms by Dean Kiely. The striker played a great one-two with Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink only to see Kiely get down well to smother his shot before directing a header straight into the keeper's arms. Boro had plenty of time on the ball but the Addicks comfortably mopped up the pressure - with Kiely tipping a Hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their
Wales centre Sonny Parker and number eight Ryan Jones will miss Saturday's game with Italy because of injury. Parker has not recovered from a trapped nerve in his neck that kept him out of the win over England, and Tom Shanklin is expected to continue at centre. Jones damaged his collar bone after coming on as a replacement against England and joins flanker Colin Charvis (foot injury) on the sidelines. Meanwhile, Mike Ruddock may make Gavin Henson his first-choice kicker in Rome. The centre was Wales' hero in the 11-9 Six Nations win over England, landing a huge late penalty from wide out to clinch the game. First-choice kicker Stephen Jones handed over responsibility because of Henson's greater kicking range, but the fly-half had already missed a number of shots at goal. "Our first aim was to get Gavin settled into the team, but giving him the kicks is something we'll talk about in selection this week," Wales coach Mike Ruddock told BBC Sport Wales. Henson himself says he is relishing all the media hype that has been heaped on him since last Saturday's game. "I thrive on it and think it makes me perform better," he said. "I'm glad it's a short week before the Italy game. There was so much build-up before England, but we fly out to Rome on Thursday and we'll be back playing again."
Fifth seed Carlos Moya was the first big name to fall at the Australian Open as he went down to fellow Spaniard Guillermo Garcia-Lopez on Monday. Moya began the year with victory at the Chennai Open but looked out of sorts from the start in the Melbourne heat. Garcia-Lopez, ranked 106 in the world, dominated from the outset and withstood a third-set rally from Moya to hang on for a 7-5 6-3 3-6 6-3 victory. The 21-year-old plays Kevin Kim or Lee Hyuung-Taik in the second round. Garcia-Lopez was delighted with the victory in only his third ever Grand Slam match. "I think this was the most important win of my life as Carlos is one of the best players in the world," he said. "This has given me a lot of confidence. Now I feel I can beat all these players." Moya said: "I was playing well before I came here. It was the perfect preparation but something was wrong today." Four-time champion Andre Agassi began what could be his last Australian Open with a convincing win over German qualifier Dieter Kindlmann. The 34-year-old American, who had been struggling with a hip injury earlier in the week, stormed to a 6-4 6-3 6-0 win. Agassi will play France's Olivier Patience or Germany's Rainer Schuettler - the man he beat in the 2003 final - in the next round. "No one was more concerned (about the injury) than myself," said eighth seed Agassi. "I'd worked hard to be down here
England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson has revealed Shaun Wright-Phillips will start against the Netherlands. But Wright-Phillips will not make his first start for England playing on the left, as had been widely expected. "Shaun Wright-Phillips will probably start the game," said Eriksson. "But I'm not going to start Wright-Phillips on the left." Eriksson also revealed that Wes Brown will start alongside Jamie Carragher in the injury-hit centre of defence. When asked if Brown and Carragher would start Eriksson replied: "I could tell you yes. "It's a blow that four or five central defenders are away because of injuries. "On the other hand it's good for Carragher and Brown to show what they can do at this level. That's positive." The England coach said that he had been impressed by Wright-Phillips' form for Manchester City. "He deserves his chance. He has been playing well all season and I look forward to seeing him." And he added that Andy Johnson and Stewart Downing - the other two new players in the squad - would also get a chance to impress. "Wright-Phillips, Downing and Johnson will start or get the chance to play some part. "Johnson was not in my plans a year ago but he is doing a great season and scoring a lot of goals. "Downing is another one making a great season. He is young, talented and there are not too many left-footed players in the squad."
Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has refused to point the finger of blame at goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek after Portsmouth claimed a draw at Anfield. Dudek fumbled a cross before Lomana LuaLua headed home an injury-time equaliser, levelling after Steven Gerrard put Liverpool ahead. Benitez said: "It was difficult for Jerzy. It was an unlucky moment. "He was expecting a cross from Matthew Taylor and it ended up like a shot, so I don't blame him for what happened." Benitez admitted it was a costly loss of two points by Liverpool, who followed up their derby defeat against Everton with a disappointing draw. He said: "We had many opportunities but didn't score and, in the end, a 1-0 lead was not enough. "If you don't have any chances you have to think of other things, but when you are creating so many chances as we are there is nothing you can say to the players. It was a pity. "We lost two points, but we have one more point in the table. Now we have another difficult game against Newcastle and we have to recover quickly from that."
What have the European Indoor trials told us? Well, I think we could be heading to the European Championships with half a dozen medal prospects. It was good to see athletes beginning to make steps forward, to see a few new faces and there were lots of personal bests kicking around. The best performance on the track for me was Sarah Claxton's win in the 60m hurdles. Running sub-eight seconds twice in a week puts her right up there and if she repeats that in Madrid she will be close to picking up a medal. But what was great about Sunday's performance was that she was under pressure to produce the goods when it counted. Diane Allahgreen has been our best hurdler for some time now and I think she was surprised to be beaten by Sarah. And knowing that she got the better of Diane in a head-to-head race will give Sarah confidence. In the men's race on Saturday, Allan Scott was right in there and there is definitely more to come from him. In fact, the men's 60m hurdles is so strong, I think the selectors will pick three hurdlers to go to Madrid. Phillips Idowu lit up the field events, not only with his hair, but also with his leap of 17.30m, which puts him at the top of the world rankings. I had a chat with him before the competition and he was really looking forward to getting out there. He feels he is in great
Chelsea left-back Wayne Bridge could miss the rest of the season with a suspected broken ankle. The England international, 24, was hurt in an innocuous challenge with Alan Shearer during the Londoners' FA Cup defeat at Newcastle on Sunday. "We think it's a big injury," said Jose Mourinho, whose Chelsea team this week meet Barcelona in the Champions League and Liverpool in the Carling Cup final. William Gallas and Damien Duff could also miss the Barcelona game. France defender Gallas and Ireland winger Duff both picked up their injuries in the closing stages of Chelsea's 1-0 defeat at St James' Park. With Bridge having gone off after Mourinho used all three substitutes, those knocks plus Carlo Cudicini's red card meant Chelsea finished the game with seven able-bodied players. Cudicini would not have played against Barcelona, but had been promised a game in the Carling Cup final, although he will now miss the Cardiff showpiece through suspension. The manager is not planning to add any new names to his squad ahead of the trip to Barcelona, even though he has few options to replace Bridge at left-back. Celestine Babayaro left the club in January, ironically to join Newcastle, and although Gallas has deputised at left-back before, he is struggling to be fit himself. It could be that Paulo Ferreira, usually a right-back, is switched to left-back with Glen Johnson, who ended the Newcastle game in goal, playing on the right. Youngsters Ben Hudell, Joe Keenan and Sam Tillen would be options
Andre Agassi's involvement in the Australian Open was put in doubt after he pulled out of the Kooyong Classic with a hip injury. Agassi was serving at 5-6 down in the first set to fellow American Andy Roddick when he decided to bring a premature end to the match. "My hip was cramping and I just could not continue," said the 34-year-old. Agassi, who has won the Australian Open four times, will have an MRI scan to discover the extent of the damage. He said the problem was not the same as the hip injury which forced him to miss Wimbledon last year. "The good news is that it didn't just tear, it was tightening up and that can be your body protecting itself, which is hopefully more of the issue," he added. "That wasn't comfortable out there at all, what I was feeling. "I have to wait and see what I'm dealing with - it's a pretty scary feeling out there when something doesn't feel right and is getting worse. "It's very disappointing and I'll have to do my best to deal with it. Time will shortly tell if it (the Australian Open) is a possibility or not. "I was not counting on this being the end of the day for me. "Maybe in a few days I'll have a much better sense of what my hopes will be."
Wales secured their first away win in the RBS Six Nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in Rome. Tries from Jonathan Thomas, Tom Shanklin and Martyn Williams gave the visitors a 19-5 half-time advantage. Luciano Orquera did reply with one for Italy but second-half efforts from Brent Cockbain, Shane Williams and Robert Sidoli sealed victory. Fly-half Stephen Jones added four conversions as Wales maintained their superb start to this year's tournament. Starting full of confidence after their victory over England, the visitors scored the opening try after just four minutes. Diminutive wing Shane Williams fielded a kick ahead and danced past the onrushing Andrea Masi and Aaron Persico into the Italian half. His pass to Tom Shanklin appeared forward but when the centre was held up short, the ball was switched left and Michael Owen's long cut-out pass gave the lurking Thomas an easy run-in. Stephen Jones, who retained the kicking duties despite Gavin Henson's heroics against England, slotted an excellent conversion from wide out. Wales twice threatened further scores but failed to find the crucial pass, and Italy hit back out of the blue in the 11th minute. Henson, sporting gold boots rather than the silver variety that did for England, beat two players with ease out on the left touchline. But his attempted chip ahead was charged down by Orquera, who snaffled the loose ball and hared away from halfway to score in the right corner. With the Welsh line-out stuttering and Italy twice turning
Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon has played down reports that Arjen Robben will return for the Champions League match against Barcelona. "He's been responding well to treatment and started running on Friday, but we'll have to wait and see," he told BBC Five Live's Sportsweek. "We're looking to getting him back as soon as possible, but he'll be back when it's right for him and for us. "There's no plans at the moment around the Barcelona game." His comments contradict those of chiropractor Jean Pierre Meersseman who treated the Dutchman after he fractured his foot at the start of February. Robben had been expected to be out for six weeks, but Meersseman hinted that the winger could be fit for the vital Stamford Bridge game on 8 March. "I hope he can be back and I will try to help him make that happen," Meersseman told the Mail on Sunday. "I put everything right with Arjen's foot the last time I saw him 12 days ago. It was an obvious correction and easy to perform. "I know he was pleased with what I did and now that he is running again. I am due to see him one more time again in the next few days." Meersseman is the medical co-ordinator at Italian side AC Milan.
Jason Gardener fought all the way to the line to narrowly claim the men's 60m title at the Norwich Union Indoor trials and AAAs Championships. The world 60m champion got off to a rolling start and had to dig deep to dip ahead of Mark Findlay and Darren Chin, who both set personal bests. "It was a close race," admitted Gardener. "I stumbled out the blocks but my experience told through. "I still feel there's more life in me and I believe I can go faster." Gardener's performance in Sheffield could have been affected by the news, which he heard before his semi-final, that his European record had been broken Frenchman Ronald Pognon, who will be a real threat at the European Championships, set a new time of 6.45, one-hundreth of a second faster than Gardener's previous mark. Favourite delivered a powerful performance to take the women's 60m title in 7.27 seconds. "You'll see me in Madrid and I feel there is a lot more to come along," said the 22-year-old. Katherine Endacott battled hard to take second and dip under the European qualifying mark. Defending champion Joice Maduaka had pulled out of the final with a chest infection. was on record-breaking form as she stormed to the women's 60m hurdles crown. The 25-year-old set a new British record for the second time in seven days, clocking 7.96 seconds to finish ahead of rival Diane Allahgreen. "I'm so happy," a tearful Claxton told BBC Sport. "All the years I've been
Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger would consider signing Adrian Mutu once the striker has served his drugs ban. Mutu was sacked by Chelsea on Friday after testing positive for cocaine - a move Wenger has backed. But he said: "I don't even wonder if that could happen because I think he will be suspended for a long period. "But once he has served his suspension, he has the right again to start from zero. I would then meet the player and see what he tells me." Mutu faces a ban of between six months and two years when the Football Association decides on his punishment. Chelsea decided to act before his case was heard and sacked the striker on grounds of gross misconduct after it was revealed that he had failed a drug test. But Mutu has hit out at the club's decision, saying: "Chelsea have destroyed me." He told the Sunday Mirror: "I don't know what I'm going to do. I am shocked and surprised by their decision. "I didn't expect them to pay me while I was suspended but I never thought they would sack me either. "Why didn't they wait to do this? Now my career is in ruins. "I might as well walk away from football. What is there left for me?" Chelsea have been criticised for their stance, with the Professional Footballers' Association accusing the club of failing in their duty of care to the player. And Mutu agreed, adding: "It is unfair. If they were
Arsenal's Sol Campbell has called the rivalry between Manchester United and the Gunners "bitter and personal". Past encounters have stirred up plenty of ill-feeling between the sides and they meet again at Highbury on Tuesday. "It is just more bitter and personal against United," the defender told The Guardian newspaper. "There's an edge. "After all that has happened, if we beat them it will be one of our sweetest ever wins, especially because of how we lost to them up there." Last October, Arsenal lost 2-0 at Old Trafford, which ended a record 49-match unbeaten league run and sparked a mini-crisis, with the Gunners winning only three of their next 10 games. "It had a psychological impact on us, but again because of the way we were defeated," added the 30-year-old, referring to a controversial penalty award for United's first goal. "That was far more upsetting, losing like that, because they just seem to get away with it. You try and balance out over the course of a season but I've had so many rough decisions against them you begin to wonder." With tensions spilling over afterwards - United boss Sir Alex Ferguson was allegedly pelted with pizza in the players' tunnel - there is little surprise that so much is riding on the return encounter on. "Everyone at Arsenal has been waiting for this game," said Campbell. "We are up for this one." Speaking on his long-term plans, Campbell signalled his intent to move abroad before he turns 35.
Wales record cap holder Gareth Llewellyn will retire from Test rugby at the end of the Six Nations. The veteran lock, who is 36 at the end of February, told BBC Wales Scrum V that it is time for him to bring down the curtain on his 92-cap Wales career. Llewellyn is on a one-season deal with French club side Narbonne, but said he may consider retiring from all rugby. "I don't know what I'll do next year, whether to carry on playing or make a change in my career," Llewellyn said. "Narbonne are really keen for me to stay on for next year, so I've got to decide whether to stay on there or maybe go somewhere else, but ultimitely coaching is where I'd like to end up. "I've done all the coaching awards and everything you can do in that respect, so it's just hopefully getting a chance somewhere." Fellow locks Robert Sidoli and Brent Cockbain, who both scored tries in Saturday's Six Nations win in Italy, are Wales coach Mike Ruddock's preferred starters in the second row. With the resurgence of the Dragons' Ian Gough and the adaptibility of lock-cum-flanker Jon Thomas on the bench, Llewellyn has not yet made a match-day squad this Six Nations campaign. But the former Neath and Ospreys player is still targetting one last outing in the red shirt. "If I do get on the field then brilliant, although the boys are doing really well and I'm very pleased for them," Llewellyn
Wales number eight Michael Owen says replacing Gareth Thomas as Wales' captain will be straightforward because of the leadership quality in the squad. "You dream about playing for Wales, but it never enters your head that you will one day captain your country," he said. "It's an easy job really because there are so many experienced players in the side, but it will be a massive honour." Coach Mike Ruddock says the 24-year-old should take the armband from broken thumb victim Thomas against Scotland. Ruddock praised Owen's contribution as vice-captain and pack leader in this year's wins over England, Italy and France, notably his role in the second-half in Paris following Thomas' injury. The 22-cap Dragons man says that Thomas will be badly missed, though. "Gareth is going to be a massive loss because he is a brilliant player and he has done a fantastic job since he has been captain," said Owen. "He has put his own unique stamp on things. We are going to miss him but the strength of the squad is shown when you have someone like Kevin Morgan to step in." Owen admitted the Grand Slam had been mentioned within the squad but that no-one was getting carried away with the three victories over England, Italy and France. "We can't get ahead of ourselves," he said. "We have a massive game next up and we are just looking forward to preparing for that. "Scotland are improving all the time. Like us they did well in
Wing Christophe Dominici says France can claim another Six Nations Grand Slam despite two lacklustre wins so far against Scotland and England. The champions only just saw off the Scots in Paris, then needed England to self-destruct in last week's 18-17 win. "The English played better than us but lost, whereas we are still in the race for the Grand Slam," said Dominici. "We know our display was not perfect, but we can still win the Grand Slam, along with Ireland and Wales." France , Ireland and Wales all remain unbeaten after two rounds of this year's RBS Six Nations, with the two Celtic nations playing by far the more impressive rugby. France take on Wales at the Stade de France on 26 February and Ireland in Dublin on 12 March. But although France have yet to click, Dominici says that they can still win the hard way as long as scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili continues in his goalkicking form. "If we have an efficient kicker on whom we can rely on, a solid defence and a team who play for their lives, we can achieve something," Dominici added. "I said at the start of the competition that the winners would be clearer from the third matches, and that's exactly what is going to happen." France coach Bernard Laporte will announce his starting line-up next Tuesday for the match against Wales. Wing Jimmy Marlu is definitely out with the knee injury sustained at Twickenham, which is likely to sideline him for
Former Liverpool manager Gerard Houllier has praised the work of his Anfield successor Rafael Benitez. Houllier was angry at reports that he has been critical of Benitez since the Spaniard took over at Liverpool. But Houllier told BBC Sport: "In private and in public, I have stressed I believe Rafa is doing a good job. He is the right man at the right place. "Rafa is a good coach and a good man. I've spoken to him since he has been at Liverpool and never criticised him." Houllier also revealed he is now ready to return to the game after leaving Liverpool in May following six years at Anfield. The former France boss has been linked with a host of jobs and pulled out of the race to succeed Mark Hughes as Wales national coach. He has been working for Uefa, covering the Premiership for French television and also coaching in Brazil with national coach Carlos Alberto Perreira. Houllier said: "If a good club comes up at the right time then yes, I am ready to come back. "It has been interesting to watch games from a different perspective and I have learned things. "I have been involved in football since leaving Liverpool and my batteries are recharged." Houllier has been impressed with the quality in the Premiership after watching as a pundit - particularly with Jose Mourinho's work at leaders Chelsea. He said: "Chelsea are doing very well. They have some very good creative players in Damien Duff and
Northern Ireland man James McIlroy is confident he can win his first major title at this weekend's Spar European Indoor Championships in Madrid. The 28-year-old has been in great form in recent weeks and will go in as one of the 800 metres favourites. "I believe after my wins abroad and in our trial race in Sheffield, I can run my race from the front, back or middle," said McIlroy. New coach Tony Lester has helped get McIlroy's career back on track. The 28-year-old 800 metres runner has not always matched his promise with performances but believes his decision to change coaches and move base will bring the rewards. McIlroy now lives in Windsor and feels his career has been transformed by the no-nonsense leadership style of former Army sergeant Lester. Lester is better known for his work with 400m runners Roger Black and Mark Richardson in the past but under his guidance McIlroy has secured five wins this indoor season. McIlroy now claims he is in his best shape since finishing fourth for Ireland at the outdoor European Championships in 1998. "That was my last decent year," said McIlroy, who temporarily retired last August before returning to the sport under Lester's shrewd guidance. "Before, every race was like trying to climb Mount Everest and I now know you can't do it on your own. "Trying to succeed saw me sometimes standing half-dead and terrified on the starting line, which became a bit too much." McIlroy, who was compared to
The Wales Students rugby side has become a casualty of the Welsh Rugby Union's reorganisation at youth level. An amalgamated Under-18 side formed from separate schools and national youth teams plays its first match on Thursday, against Italy at the Gnoll. But that move has seen the WRU decide to end its funding of representative sides such as Wales Students. As a result, traditional international fixtures against England and France in the New Year have been cancelled. The Welsh Students Rugby Football Union feels that it is unable to properly prepare for or stage the matches. The secretary of the Welsh Students Rugby Football Union, Reverend Eldon Phillips, said: "It is a shame that fixtures cannot be maintained this year. "The competition provided by the strong English and French teams has enabled the Welsh Students to test themselves in high quality matches. "The increasing number of young rugby players entering Higher Education look for the biggest challenge, that is representative rugby, but this year that opportunity will be denied them. Players who have played for Wales Students before going on to win full senior representative honours include Robert Jones, Rob Howley, Jon Humphreys, Darren Morris, Martyn Williams and Ceri Sweeney.
World number one Lindsay Davenport has criticised Wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women. Reacting to a disputed comment by All England Club chairman Tim Phillips, the American said: "I think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away. "Somebody, I think it was Mr Phillips, said they won't have money for flowers at Wimbledon. That's insulting." An All England club spokesperson denied Phillips made the remark, insisting: "He definitely didn't say it." The statement added: "It was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the Wimbledon grounds." Davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week's Dubai Duty Free event will join the US and Australian Opens in offering equal prize money for women. "You hear about women playing only three sets while men play five," said Daveport. "And the best women are never going to beat the best men. "But it's a different game you go to watch with the women - it doesn't make it better or worse. "Hopefully we will be able to change people's minds." Serena Williams, who is also in Dubai, added: "I'm obviously for equal prize money. "Women's tennis is exciting. Men's tennis is exciting as well, but the women have it right now. "If you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap."
Former Scotland international Finlay Calder fears civil war at the SRU could seriously hamper his country's RBS Six Nations campaign. Four members of the executive board, including the chairman, David Mackay, have resigned after a simmering row. And Calder said: "This is terrible news for every level of Scottish rugby. "David is a successful businessman and I thought that if anybody could transform the negative atmosphere and rising debt level, it was him." Mackay's executive board has been in a power struggle with the general committee, which contains members elected by Scotland's club sides. "He has been driven out by people who seem happier waging civil war than addressing the central issue that professional rugby can't be run by amateurs," said Calder. "In fact, I don't understand why we are still having this argument 10 years after professionalism arrived. "But I don't believe the rest of the SRU will take this lying down. "I think the banks will be dismayed at this decision and, ultimately, it is them who pull the strings. "So I wouldn't be surprised if they reviewed their position. But, in the wider picture, what message does this send out?" He thought the work of Scotland's coaches, who have been attempting to arrest the decline of the national side, would be made much more difficult. "Matt Williams and Willie Anderson must be wondering, 'what have we walked into here?'" said Calder. "And we can now expect weeks of arguments and acrimony just at a time when we
British hurdler Sarah Claxton is confident she can win her first major medal at next month's European Indoor Championships in Madrid. The 25-year-old has already smashed the British record over 60m hurdles twice this season, setting a new mark of 7.96 seconds to win the AAAs title. "I am quite confident," said Claxton. "But I take each race as it comes. "As long as I keep up my training but not do too much I think there is a chance of a medal." Claxton has won the national 60m hurdles title for the past three years but has struggled to translate her domestic success to the international stage. Now, the Scotland-born athlete owns the equal fifth-fastest time in the world this year. And at last week's Birmingham Grand Prix, Claxton left European medal favourite Russian Irina Shevchenko trailing in sixth spot. For the first time, Claxton has only been preparing for a campaign over the hurdles - which could explain her leap in form. In previous seasons, the 25-year-old also contested the long jump but since moving from Colchester to London she has re-focused her attentions. Claxton will see if her new training regime pays dividends at the European Indoors which take place on 5-6 March.
Paula Radcliffe has been granted extra time to decide whether to compete in the World Cross-Country Championships. The 31-year-old is concerned the event, which starts on 19 March in France, could upset her preparations for the London Marathon on 17 April. "There is no question that Paula would be a huge asset to the GB team," said Zara Hyde Peters of UK Athletics. "But she is working out whether she can accommodate the worlds without too much compromise in her marathon training." Radcliffe must make a decision by Tuesday - the deadline for team nominations. British team member Hayley Yelling said the team would understand if Radcliffe opted out of the event. "It would be fantastic to have Paula in the team," said the European cross-country champion. "But you have to remember that athletics is basically an individual sport and anything achieved for the team is a bonus. "She is not messing us around. We all understand the problem." Radcliffe was world cross-country champion in 2001 and 2002 but missed last year's event because of injury. In her absence, the GB team won bronze in Brussels.
Rafael Nadal continued his run of fine form to beat Guillermo Canas and reach the Mexican Open semis in Acapulco. Eighth seed Nadal, who picked up his second ATP title when he beat Alberto Martin in last week's Brazil Open, saw off the Argentine third seed 7-5 6-3. He now meets Argentine wild card Mariano Puerta, who followed up his win over top seed Carlos Moya by overcoming Spain's Felix Mantilla, 6-4 3-6 7-6. Czech fifth seed Czech Jiri Novak was eliminated 7-5 6-1 by Agustin Calleri. The unseeded Argentine, who won the tournament two years ago, now plays Spain's Albert Montanes. Montanes advanced to his first semi-final of the year with a 4-6 6-3 6-4 triumph over sixth-seeded Italian Filippo Volandri. Argentina's Agustin Calleri beat fourth seed Jiri Novak 7-5 6-1 in a battle of former champions at the Mexican Open. Calleri won his only ATP title in Acapulco two years ago while Novak won the singles and doubles titles in 1998. Calleri will face Albert Montanes in the semi-finals after the Spaniard ousted sixth seed Filippo Volandri of Italy 4-6 6-3 6-4. Argentine wild card Mariano Puerta continued his improbable run, outlasting Felix Mantilla 6-4 3-6 7-6.
England will have to take on Ireland in the Six Nations without captain and goal-kicker Jonny Wilkinson, according to his Newcastle boss Rob Andrew. Wilkinson - who had targeted the 27 February match for his international comeback - has been missed by England, not least for his goal-kicking. "Jonny's not fit yet," Falcons chief Andrew told BBC Radio Five Live. "He won't be fit for Dublin, there's no doubt about that, but he might be fit for Scotland and Italy." The 25-year-old has not played for England since the 2003 World Cup final after a succession of injuries. England, who have lost three Six Nations games in a row, wasted a 17-6 half-time lead in their 18-17 defeat to France. Goal-kickers Charlie Hodgson and Olly Barkley missed six penalty attempts and a drop-goal between them. "They've probably got two of the best English kickers in the Premiership in Hodgson and Barkley," added Andrew, a former England fly-half and goal-kicker. "They're both pretty good kickers. Charlie is a good kicker week-in, week-out. "But it's all about pressure and unfortunately England are just not handling the pressure at the moment." Andrew also blamed England's poor run of recent results on a lack of leadership in the side following several high-profile retirements and injuries. "They just didn't have that leadership that would have seen them through. Martin Johnson, Lawrence Dallaglio and Jonny are obviously huge losses and leadership is so important in those situations," he said. "I think it is really difficult for
Former All Black star Jonah Lomu says he cannot wait to run out on the pitch for former England rugby union captain Martin Johnson's testimonial on 4 June. The 29-year-old had a kidney transplant in July 2004 but will play his first full match for three years, leading a southern hemisphere side at Twickenham. "I actually started training three weeks after my operation but I was very limited until a few months ago. "Now it's basically bring it on!" said the giant winger. "The match on 4 June will be my first 15-man game but I have a training schedule which is quite testing and combines with sevens and a whole lot of things," said Lomu. "I have got so much energy since my operation that I train three times a day, six days a week. "Mohammed Ali has always been my ideal. Coming back to rugby, people said 'you are dreaming' but it always starts off with a dream. "It's up to you whether you want to make it a reality." Opinion has been divided on whether Lomu should attempt to return to the game after such a major operation. But when Lomu was asked whether he was taking a risk he replied: "As much as someone going down the road being hit by a bus. "There are a lot of people in the world with one kidney who just don't know it. "I have talked this over, had a chat with the donor and this is to set
Ajax have refused to reveal whether Tottenham's boss Martin Jol is on the Dutch champions' shortlist to become the Amsterdam club's new coach. Jol, who has coached in his native Holland, has guided Spurs to the Premiership's top eight. An Ajax spokesman told BBC Sport: "The coach must fit our profile - a coach who understands the Dutch league and offensive and distinctive football. "We need to find a solution soon, so someone is in place for next season." Ronald Koeman quit as Ajax boss last week after their exit from the Uefa Cup. Jol has been linked with the vacant post at Ajax, with reports saying he has fallen out with Spurs' sporting director Frank Arnesen. But in a statement on Spurs' website, Jol said: "I'm happy here, I'm not in discussion with anyone else, I don't want to go elsewhere." Ajax have enlisted the help of Dutch legend Johann Cruyff, currently a consultant at Barcelona, to help find a new head coach. Cruyff has admitted he has been impressed by the way former RFC Waalwijk coach Jol has turned round Spurs' fortunes since taking over from Jacques Santini. Tonny Bruins Slot and Ruud Krol are currently in charge of Ajax, who are third in the Dutch league.
This won't go down as one of the greatest marathons of Paula's career. But as a test of character, it was the toughest race she's ever taken part in. A win in the New York marathon doesn't make up for the disappointment of Athens in any shape or form, but it will offer hope and reassurance for next year. If Paula's last experience of the year had been Athens, it would have been very difficult to look forward with any optimism. She can now draw a line under this year and make plans about her future. Even if she'd lost this race, there would have been a lot of positives to take out of it. She knows she can dig deep if she needs to. It was a strong field, with a number of the girls going into the race with expectations of winning. And although two hours 23 minutes wasn't one of Paula's best times, it wasn't far off the record on a difficult course. I was speaking to Paula in the lead-up to this race and she said that in many ways she was facing a no-win situation. She thought that if she won, people would say "why couldn't she do that in Athens?" And if she lost, people would say her career was over. And a lot of people were wondering what would happen if Paula was forced to drop out of this race, as she did in the marathon and 10,000m in Athens. But that was
If broadband were a jumbo jet, then 2003 would have seen it taxiing down the runway, firing up its engines and preparing for take-off. But this year has seen it soar. In the spring it literally took to the skies as Lufthansa and British Airways trialled it on flights. This perhaps said more about how indispensable people were beginning to perceive the technology, rather than how useful sky-high broadband would actually be. It was flying high and by the autumn, five million Britons had signed up for high-speed net access at home. Such enthusiasm is unlikely to dampen any time soon and experts predict that by the end of next year the numbers will have risen to more than eight million, or more than 30% of homes. The two key factors in whetting people's appetite were falling prices and a huge marketing push. When operators such as BT and Telewest offered standard 512K broadband for less than £20 at the beginning of the year, it was as if an invisible barrier had been breached - broadband had truly gone mass market. A feeding frenzy followed as firms vied for eyeballs in a price war reminiscent of that following the mass market take-up of dial-up. Broadband for less than £10 was even touted by some firms, although such a low price raised eyebrows among more established companies questioning how they are able to sustain such business models. For those who became broadbanders in 2004 there was no turning back and the
Some of the most vivid descriptions of the devastation in southern Asia are on the internet - in the form of web logs or blogs. Bloggers have been offering snapshots of information from around the region and are also providing some useful information for those who want to help. Indian writer Rohit Gupta edits a group blog called Dogs without Borders. When he created it, the site was supposed to be a forum to discuss relations between India and Pakistan. But in the wake of Sunday's tsunami, Mr Gupta and his fellow bloggers switched gears. They wanted to blog the tsunami and its aftermath. One Sri Lankan blogger in the group goes by the online name Morquendi. With internet service disrupted by the tsunami, Morquendi started sending SMS text messages via cell phone from the affected areas of Sri Lanka. "We started publishing these SMSes," says Mr Gupta. "Morquendi was describing scenes like 1,600 bodies washed up on a shore, and people burying, and burying and burying them. People digging holes with their hands. And this was coming through an SMS message. "We didn't have visual accounts on radio or on TV, or in the print media." Soon, thousands of web users around the world were logging on to read Morquendi's first hand accounts. In one message, Morquendi wrote about a Sri Lankan woman who was running home with a friend when the wave hit. "She was being swept away," Morquendi's message read. "She grabbed a tree with one hand
Net browser Opera 8.0, due for official release at the end of next month, will be "the most accessible browser on the market", according to its authors. The latest version of the net browser can be controlled by voice command and will read pages aloud. The voice features, based on IBM technology, are currently only available in the Windows version. Opera can also magnify text by up to 10 times and users can create "style sheets", its developers say. This will enable them to view pages with colours and fonts that they prefer. But the browser does not yet work well with screen reader software often used by blind people, so its accessibility features are more likely to appeal to those with some residual vision. "Our mission was always to provide the best internet experience for everyone," said Opera spokeswoman, Berit Hanson. "So we would obviously not want to exclude disabled computer users." Another feature likely to appeal to people with low vision is the ability to make pages fit to the screen width, which eliminates the need for horizontal scrolling. The company points out that this will also appeal to anyone using Opera with a handheld device. The company says that features like voice activation are not solely aimed at visually impaired people. "Our idea was to take a first step in making human-computer interaction more natural," said Ms Hanson. "People are not always in a situation where they can access a keyboard, so this makes the web a
Imagine editing Titanic down to watch just your favourite bits or cutting out the slushier moments of Star Wars to leave you with a bare bones action-fest. Manipulating your favourite films to make a more personalised movie is just the beginning of an ambitious new 7.5m euro (£5.1m) project funded by the European Union. New Media for a New Millennium (NM2) will have as its endgame the development of a completely new media genre, which will allow audiences to create their own media worlds based on their specific interests or tastes. Viewers will be able to participate in storylines, manipulate plots and even the sets and props of TV shows. BT is one of 13 partners involved in the project. It will be contributing software that was originally designed to spot anomalies in CCTV pictures. The software uses content recognition algorithms. The three-year project will work on seven productions as it develops a set of software tools that will allow viewers to edit content to their needs. One of the productions will be a experimental television show where the plot will be driven by text messages from the TV audience. Participants will text selected words which will impact how the characters in the drama interact. It is being developed in Finland and will be shown to Finnish TV audiences. Another team will work on the BBC's big budget drama of Mervyn Peake's gothic fantasy Gormenghast. It will be re-engineered to allow people to choose a variety of edited versions. "The
Mobile phones in the UK are celebrating their 20th anniversary this weekend. Britain's first mobile phone call was made across the Vodafone network on 1 January 1985 by veteran comedian Ernie Wise. In the 20 years since that day, mobile phones have become an integral part of modern life and now almost 90% of Britons own a handset. Mobiles have become so popular that many people use their handset as their only phone and rarely use a landline. The first ever call over a portable phone was made in 1973 in New York but it took 10 years for the first commercial mobile service to be launched. The UK was not far behind the rest of the world in setting up networks in 1985 that let people make calls while they walked. The first call was made from St Katherine's dock to Vodafone's head office in Newbury which at the time was over a curry house. For the first nine days of 1985 Vodafone was the only firm with a mobile network in the UK. Then on 10 January Cellnet (now O2) launched its service. Mike Caudwell, spokesman for Vodafone, said that when phones were launched they were the size of a briefcase, cost about £2,000 and had a battery life of little more than 20 minutes. "Despite that they were hugely popular in the mid-80s," he said. "They became a yuppy must-have and a status symbol among young wealthy business folk." This was also despite the fact that the
Music downloading, for those that have rejected the free peer to peer services, can be a costly business. The cost of paying even as little as 70p per track can add up, particularly for those people who own one of the new generation of players that can store thousands of songs. Paying per track for music is becoming as outmoded as paying per minute for internet access and alternative monthly or yearly subscription models are springing up as a more convenient, and ultimately cheaper way of owning music. "Music fans are moving away from buying the traditional bundled package of a dozen or more songs that we used to call an album to newer ways that fit their lifestyle; either single tracks or subscriptions services," said Paul Myers, chief executive of Wippit, a UK-based music download service. While iTunes is doing good business with its sales of individual tracks to iPod owners, others are questioning whether the concept of owning music is even valid in the digital age. Napster is due to launch a new rental subscription service - dubbed Napster to Go in the UK in the next few months. The service can be used on players that support Microsoft Windows latest Digital Rights Management technology known as Janus. This includes players made by Samsung, Rio and Creative. Currently on offer in beta-version in the US, the service costs $15 per month for unlimited downloads. The technology ensures that music downloaded to the player only remains playable while the
Yahoo, one of the net's most iconic companies, is celebrating its 10th anniversary this week. The web portal has undergone remarkable change since it was set up by Stanford University students David Filo and Jerry Yang in a campus trailer. The students wanted a way of keeping track of their web-based interests. The categories lists they devised soon became popular to hundreds of people and the two saw business potential in their idea. Originally dubbed "Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web" the firm adopted the moniker Yahoo because the founders liked the dictionary definition of a yahoo as a rude, unsophisticated, uncouth person. The term was popularised by the 18th Century satirist Jonathan Swift in his classic novel, Gulliver's Travels. "We were certainly not sophisticated or civilised," Mr Yang told reporters ahead of the anniversary, which will be officially recognised on 2 March. They did have business brains however, and in April 1995 persuaded venture capitalists Sequoia Capital, which also invested in Apple Computer and Cisco Systems, to fund Yahoo to the tune of $2m (£1.04m). A second round of funding followed in the autumn and the company floated in April 1996 with less than 50 employees. Now the firm employs 7,600 workers and insists its dot com culture of "work hard, play hard" still remains. It is one of just a handful of survivors of the dot-com crash although it now faces intense rivalry from firms such as Google, MSN and AOL. Jerry Yang, who remains the firm's
The computer systems used to monitor the world's nuclear power installations are so outdated that they are hampering the work of inspectors. A spokesman for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said its current technology could allow key information to be overlooked as it was more than 20 years old. Such systems are the only method of tracking nuclear material worldwide. The agency has appealed for more funds to update its hardware and software. "A major overhaul of the system is needed to allow inspectors immediate, secure online access to information," said project manager Livio Costantini. IAEA inspectors make around 3,000 visits a year to more than 900 nuclear facilities worldwide. They are there to verify official reports of activities in the plants, to carry out environmental checks, and also to look for any signs that nuclear material is being smuggled in or out of the facility. The computer system inspectors currently use for comparing data from earlier visits, for instance, was built in the 1970s and largely paper based. An IAEA spokesman said this was extremely inefficient and makes searching for anomalies like searching for a needle in a haystack. The organisation is aiming to start a system upgrade in November, aiming to provide inspectors in the field with secure online access to previous inspection data, design blueprints of nuclear facilities, even satellite images of the plant. Where possible, it hopes to link the system with national records of the import and export of nuclear materials. Further analysis of
Spin the radio dial in the US and you are likely to find plenty of Spanish-language music. But what you will not find is much Spanish-language hip-hop. Hip-hop and rap are actually quite popular in the Spanish-speaking world, but local artists are having trouble marketing their work abroad. But now, a US company is bringing rap and hip-hop en espanol to computer users everywhere. Los Caballeros de Plan G are one of Mexico's hottest hip-hop acts. They have a devoted fan base in their native Monterrey. But most Mexican hip-hop fans, not to mention fans in most of the Spanish-speaking world, rarely get a chance to hear the group's tracks on the radio. "You can't really just go on the radio and listen to hip-hop in Spanish... it's just not accessible," says Manuel Millan, a native of San Diego, California. "It's really hard for the Spanish hip-hop scene to get into mainstream radio. You usually have a very commercialised sound and the groups are not really known around the country or around the world." Millan and two friends set out to change that - they wanted to make groups like Los Caballeros de Plan G accessible to fans globally. Mainstream radio stations were not going to play this kind of music, and starting their own broadcast station was economically impossible. So, Millan and his friends launched a website called latinohiphopradio.com. The name says it all: it is web-based radio, devoted to the hottest Spanish language rap and hip-hop tracks. The
Cable firm Telewest is to offer a personal video recorder (PVR) in a set -top box to challenge Sky Plus. Sky Plus is the market leader in the field of digital video recorders in the UK, with 474,000 subscribers. PVRs record TV programmes to a hard drive, letting viewers pause, and rewind live television and effectively "time shift" the viewing experience. A number of PVRs incorporating Freeview digital terrestrial TV are also on the market but their success is limited. Telewest's PVR will offer a 160GB hard drive, which has storage for up to 80 hours of programmes. The box has three tuners, which means viewers can record two channels simultaneously while watching a third channel. Sky Plus boxes come in two versions - a 20GB version for £99 and a 160GB version for £399. Sky also charges a £10 subscription fee to the service, unless viewers have a subscription to one of its premium packages. Telewest has yet to reveal pricing for the new box or if it will be charging a subscription fee for the service. Eric Tveter, president and chief operating officer at Telewest Broadband, said: "We will make our PVR set-top box available later this year, putting a stop to missed soaps, interrupted films and arguments over which programmes to record." PVRs and recordable DVD players are set to replace video recorders as the standard method of recording and saving favourite TV programmes. Last year, high street retailer Dixons said it was going to stop selling
The original Blinx was intended to convert many platform game lovers to Microsoft's then new Xbox console. Its sharp graphics and novel gameplay, with the main character able to pause, slow, rewind and fast-forward time, were meant to lure many fans to the new machine. But poor design meant the game became a very frustrating affair with players often stranded half-way through a level without the required tools to finish. Thankfully, the sequel has fixed many of the original faults. This time around you do not play as Blinx but instead you are given the chance to create two unique cat characters and two pig characters. The character generator is very detailed and a few minutes of tweaking and adjusting will create a unique personality to unleash on the game. As the game progresses you swap between the two rival factions, pig and feline, assuming the role of your created characters. The thrust of the game sees the two factions competing to recover pieces of a missing Time Crystal. As in the original, your feline persona can control time, but this time the pigs get to control space. There are a number of puzzles which require control over time to solve while the pigs can create things such as warps, space bubbles and void traps in order to progress. The control over space and time is achieved through a number of VCR-style icons and is quite intuitive. Annoyingly, the puzzles are a little too obviously flagged up and most gamers
A new breed of wearable robotic vehicles that envelop drivers are being developed by Japanese car giant Toyota. The company's vision for the single passenger in the 21st Century involves the driver cruising by in a four-wheeled leaf-like device or strolling along encased in an egg-shaped cocoon that walks upright on two feet. Both these prototypes will be demonstrated, along with other concept vehicles and helper robots, at the Toyota stand at the Expo 2005 in Aichi, Japan, in March 2005. The models are being positioned as so-called personal mobility devices, which have few limits. The open leaf-like "i-unit" vehicle is the latest version of the concept which the company introduced last year. Built using environmentally friendly plant-based materials, the single passenger unit is equipped with intelligent transport system technologies that allow for safe autopilot driving in specially equipped lanes. The model allows the user to make tight on-the-spot turns, move upright amongst other people at low speeds and can be easily switched into a reclining position at higher speeds. Body colours can be customized to suit individual preferences and a personal recognition system offers both information and music. Also on display at the show will be the egg-shaped "i-foot". This is a two-legged mountable robot like device that can be controlled with a joystick. Standing at a height of well over seven feet (2.1 metres), the unit can walk along at a speed of about 1.35km/h (0.83mph) and navigate staircases into the bargain. Mounting and dismounting is accomplished with
Microsoft is releasing tools that clean up PCs harbouring viruses and spyware. The virus-fighting program will be updated monthly and is a precursor to Microsoft releasing dedicated anti-virus software. Also being released is a software utility that will help users find and remove any spyware on their home computer. Although initially free it is thought that soon Microsoft will be charging users for the anti-spyware tool. The anti-spyware tool is available now and the anti-virus utility is expected to be available later this month. Microsoft's Windows operating system has long been a favourite of people who write computer viruses because it is so ubiquitous and has many loopholes that can be exploited. It has proved such a tempting target that there are now thought to be more than 100,000 viruses and other malicious programs in existence. Latest research suggests that new variants of viruses are being cranked out at a rate of up to 200 per week. Spyware is surreptitious software that sneaks on to home computers, often without users' knowledge. In its most benign form it just bombards users with pop-up adverts or hijacks web browser settings. The most malicious forms steal confidential information or log every keystroke that users make. Surveys have shown that most PCs are infested with spyware. Research by technology firms Earthlink and Webroot revealed that 90% of Windows machine have the malicious software on board and, on average, each one harbours 28 separate spyware programs. Before now Microsoft has left the market for PC
BT is starting its push into television with plans to offer TV over broadband. As a telecoms company, BT is moving to a content distribution strategy, Andrew Burke, chief of BT's new Entertainment unit told the IPTV World Forum. "We want to be an entertainment facilitator," he said on the opening day of the London conference. The BBC is also trialling a service to play programmes over the net and has not ruled out offering it to non-licence fee payers overseas. The corporation's Interactive Media Player (iMP) is its first foray into broadband TV - known as IPTV (Internet Protocol TV). "We see several opportunities for delivering the type of content that normally broadcasters find it difficult to get to viewers," said BT's Andrew Burke. With more people on broadband, and connection speeds increasing, telcos around the world are looking for new ways to make money from it. Increased competition between net service providers, encouraged by Ofcom, has eroded BT's position in the market. It is looking for a good return on its investment in the technology which has made broadband over ADSL a reality. It also sees delivering TV over broadband as a way of getting high-definition (HD) content to people sooner than they will be able to get it through conventional, regular broadcasts. The BBC's iMP has just finished successful technical trials and is set for much larger consumer trials later in 2005. Before it officially launches, the BBC must show the government how it offers value for
Software giant Microsoft is taking the plunge into the world of blogging. It is launching a test service to allow people to publish blogs, or online journals, called MSN Spaces. Microsoft is trailing behind competitors like Google and AOL, which already offer services which make it easy for people to set up web journals. Blogs, short for web logs, have become a popular way for people to talk about their lives and express opinions online. MSN Spaces is free to anyone with a Hotmail or MSN Messenger account. People will be able to choose a layout for the page, upload images and share photo albums and music playlists. The service will be supported by banner ads. "This is a simple tool for people to express themselves," said MSN's Blake Irving. This is Microsoft's first foray into blogging, which has taken off as a web phenomenon in the past year. Competitors like Google already offer free services through its Blogger site, while AOL provides its members with journals. Accurate figures for the number of blogs in existence are hard to come by. According to blog analysis firm Technorati, the so-called blogosphere, has doubled every five and a half months for the last 18 months. It now estimates that the number of blogs in existence has exceeded 4.8 million, although some speculate that less than a quarter are regularly maintained.
Chinese authorities closed 12,575 net cafes in the closing months of 2004, the country's government said. According to the official news agency most of the net cafes were closed down because they were operating illegally. Chinese net cafes operate under a set of strict guidelines and many of those most recently closed broke rules that limit how close they can be to schools. The move is the latest in a series of steps the Chinese government has taken to crack down on what it considers to be immoral net use. The official Xinhua News Agency said the crackdown was carried out to create a "safer environment for young people in China". Rules introduced in 2002 demand that net cafes be at least 200 metres away from middle and elementary schools. The hours that children can use net cafes are also tightly regulated. China has long been worried that net cafes are an unhealthy influence on young people. The 12,575 cafes were shut in the three months from October to December. China also tries to dictate the types of computer games people can play to limit the amount of violence people are exposed to. Net cafes are hugely popular in China because the relatively high cost of computer hardware means that few people have PCs in their homes. This is not the first time that the Chinese government has moved against net cafes that are not operating within its strict guidelines. All the 100,000 or so net cafes in the country
With home theatre systems, plasma high-definition TVs, and digital video recorders moving into the living room, the way people watch TV will be radically different in five years' time. That is according to an expert panel which gathered at the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas to discuss how these new technologies will impact one of our favourite pastimes. With the US leading the trend, programmes and other content will be delivered to viewers via home networks, through cable, satellite, telecoms companies, and broadband service providers to front rooms and portable devices. One of the most talked-about technologies of CES has been digital and personal video recorders (DVR and PVR). These set-top boxes, like the US's TiVo and the UK's Sky+ system, allow people to record, store, play, pause and forward wind TV programmes when they want. Essentially, the technology allows for much more personalised TV. They are also being built-in to high-definition TV sets, which are big business in Japan and the US, but slower to take off in Europe because of the lack of high-definition programming. Not only can people forward wind through adverts, they can also forget about abiding by network and channel schedules, putting together their own a-la-carte entertainment. But some US networks and cable and satellite companies are worried about what it means for them in terms of advertising revenues as well as "brand identity" and viewer loyalty to channels. Although the US leads in this technology at the moment, it is also a
Microsoft is celebrating bumper sales of its Xbox sci-fi shooter, Halo 2. The game has sold more than five million copies worldwide since it went on sale in mid-November, the company said. Halo 2 has proved popular online, with gamers notching up a record 28 million hours playing the game on Xbox Live. According to Microsoft, nine out of 10 Xbox Live members have played the game for an average of 91 minutes per session. The sequel to the best-selling Need for Speed: Underground has inched ahead of the competition to take the top slot in the official UK games charts. The racing game moved up one spot to first place, nudging GTA: San Andreas down to second place. Halo 2 dropped one place to five, while Half-Life 2 fell to number nine. Last week's new releases, GoldenEye: Rogue Agent and Killzone, both failed to make it into the top 10, debuting at number 11 and 12 respectively. Record numbers of Warcraft fans are settling in the games online world. On the opening day of the World of Warcraft massive multi-player online game more than 200,000 players signed up to play. On the evening of the first day more than 100,000 players were in the world, forcing Blizzard to add another 34 servers to cope with the influx. The online game turns the stand alone Warcraft games into a persistent world that players can inhabit not just visit Europe's gamers could be waiting until January to hear when they can
The 'bad behaviour' of e-mail users is helping to sustain the spam industry, a new study has found. According to a survey conducted by security firm Mirapoint and market research company the Radicati Group, nearly a third of e-mail users have clicked on links in spam messages. One in ten users have bought products advertised in junk mail. Clicking on a link in a spam message can expose people to viruses and alert spammers to live e-mail accounts. The fact that one in ten e-mail users are buying things advertised in spam continues to make it an attractive business, especially given that sending out huge amounts of spam costs very little, the report concludes. "This preliminary data is surprising and somewhat shocking to us," said Marcel Nienhuis, market analyst at the Radicati Group. "It explains why e-mail security threats including spam, viruses and phishing scams continue to proliferate," he said, accusing users of "bad e-mail behaviour". Spammers are increasingly hooking into whatever happens to be flavour of the month, according to security firm Clearswift. It has recently seen a rise in the number of spam messages offering phoney Sony PSP giveaways. And, in perhaps a nod to the popularity of the American drama series Desperate Housewives, it has also seen a dramatic rise in junk mails purporting to give details of women looking for casual sex. But rather than finding a companion, users who click on such mail will find themselves redirected to porn sites, where they run the risk
Four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in Europe by the end of 2004 than last year, says a report from analysts Gartner. Globally, the number sold will reach 159 million, an increase of 104%. The report predicts that nearly 70% of all mobile phones sold will have a built-in camera by 2008. Improving imaging technology in mobiles is making them an increasingly "must-have" buy. In Europe, cameras on mobiles can take 1.3 megapixel images. But in Japan and Asia Pacific, where camera phone technology is much more advanced, mobiles have already been released which can take 3.2 megapixel images. Japan still dominates mobile phone technology, and the uptake there is huge. By 2008, according to Gartner, 95% of all mobiles sold there will have cameras on them. Camera phones had some teething problems when they were first launched as people struggled with poor quality images and uses for them, as well as the complexity and expense of sending them via MMS (Multimedia Messaging Services). This has changed in the last 18 months. Handset makers have concentrated on trying to make phones easier to use. Realising that people like to use their camera phones in different ways, they have introduced more design features, like rotating screens and viewfinders, removable memory cards and easier controls to send picture messages. Mobile companies have introduced more ways for people to share photos with other people. These have included giving people easier ways to publish them on websites, or mobile
The war of words between Microsoft and the open source movement heated up this week as Linux founder Linus Torvalds led an attack on software patents. In a panel discussion at a Linux summit in California Mr Torvalds said software patents were a problem for the open source movement. Mitchell Kapor, chairman of the Mozilla foundation, warned that Microsoft could use patent lawsuits in the future. Linux is a freely-available alternative to Microsoft's Windows. It relies on a community of programmers for its development and is based on open source principles, which allow others to use and modify it without having to pay licence fees. The attack on software patents comes at a time when IBM has made 500 of its patents freely available. Other companies are expected to follow suit. There are between 150,000 and 300,000 registered software patents in the US and open source developers argue that many should never have been granted. This is a view corroborated by the UK Patent Office. "Some of the patents have dubious validity and are being wielded by some big companies to force smaller companies to buy licenses in the knowledge that they can't afford to take them to court," said Dr Jeremy Philpott of the UK Patent Office. Some panel members are worried that Microsoft would issue a series of patent lawsuits in the future. "If totally pushed to the wall - because their business model no longer holds up in an era in which open source is an economically
So-called phishing attacks that try to trick people into handing over confidential details have boomed in 2004, say security experts. The number of phishing e-mail messages stopped by security firm MessageLabs has risen more than tenfold in less than 12 months. In 2004 it detected more than 18 million phishing e-mail messages. Other statistics show that in 2004 73% of all e-mail was spam and one in 16 messages were infected with a virus. In its end-of-year report, MessageLabs said that phishing had become the top security threat and most popular form of attack among cyber criminals. In September 2003, MessageLabs caught only 273 phishing e-mails that tried to make people visit fake versions of the websites run by real banks and financial organisations. But by September 2004 it was stopping more than two million phishing related e-mail messages per month. Worryingly, said the firm, phishing gangs were using increasingly sophisticated techniques to harvest useful information such as login details or personal data. Older attacks relied on users not spotting the fact that the site they were visiting was fake, but more recent phishing e-mails simply try to steal details as soon as a message is opened. Other phishing scams try to recruit innocent people into acting as middlemen for laundering money or goods bought with stolen credit cards. "E-mail security attacks remain unabated in their persistence and ferocity," said Mark Sunner, chief technology officer at MessageLabs. "In just 12 months phishing has firmly established itself as a threat to
British TV viewers lead the trend of illegally downloading US shows from the net, according to research. New episodes of 24, Desperate Housewives and Six Feet Under, appear on the web hours after they are shown in the US, said a report. Web tracking company Envisional said 18% of downloaders were from within the UK and that downloads of TV programmes had increased by 150% in the last year. About 70% were using file-sharing program BitTorrent, the firm said. "It's now as easy to download a pirate TV show as it is to programme a VCR," said Ben Coppin from Envisional. A typical episode of 24 was downloaded by about 100,000 people globally, said the report, and an estimated 20,000 of those were from within the UK. Fans of many popular US TV programmes, like 24, usually have to wait weeks or months until the latest series is shown in the UK. But in some cases, said the report, people were able to watch the new episodes in Britain before US audiences on the west coast of the country. "Missing a television show presents little problem to anyone with a basic knowledge of the internet," explained Mr Coppin. "Two clicks and your favourite programme is downloading. In effect, the internet is now a global video recorder." Exact figures are difficult to pin down, but it is thought that about 80,000 to 100,000 people in the UK download TV programmes. Some may just want the odd episode, others are downloading regularly.
Sci-fi shooter Doom 3 has blasted away the competition at a major games ceremony, the Golden Joystick awards. It was the only title to win twice, winning Ultimate Game of the year and best PC game at the awards, presented by Little Britain star Matt Lucas. The much-anticipated sci-fi horror Doom 3 shot straight to the top of the UK games charts on its release in August. Other winners included Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas which took the Most Wanted for Christmas prize. Only released last week, it was closely followed by Halo 2 and Half-Life 2, which are expected to be big hits when they are unleashed later this month. But they missed out on the prize for the Most Wanted game of 2005, which went to the Nintendo title, The Legend of Zelda. The original Doom, released in 1994, heralded a new era in computer games and introduced 3D graphics. It helped to establish the concept of the first-person shooter. Doom 3 was developed over four years and is thought to have cost around $15m (£8.3m). The top honour for the best online game of the year went to Battlefield Vietnam. The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay was handed the Unsung Hero Game of 2004. Its release was somewhat eclipsed by Doom 3, which was released on the same week. It was, however, very well received by gamers and was praised for its storyline which differed from the film released around the same time. Electronic Arts
Software that can not only monitor every keystroke and action performed at a PC but also be used as legally binding evidence of wrong-doing has been unveiled. Worries about cyber-crime and sabotage have prompted many employers to consider monitoring employees. The developers behind the system claim it is a break-through in the way data is monitored and stored. But privacy advocates are concerned by the invasive nature of such software. The system is a joint venture between security firm 3ami and storage specialists BridgeHead Software. They have joined forces to create a system which can monitor computer activity, store it and retrieve disputed files within minutes. More and more firms are finding themselves in deep water as a result of data misuse. Sabotage and data theft are most commonly committed from within an organisation according to the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) A survey conducted on its behalf by NOP found evidence that more than 80% of medium and large companies have been victims of some form of cyber-crime. BridgeHead Software has come up with techniques to prove, to a legal standard, that any stored file on a PC has not been tampered with. Ironically the impetus for developing the system came as a result of the Freedom of Information Act, which requires companies to store all data for a certain amount of time. The storage system has been incorporated into an application developed by security firm 3ami which allows every action on a computer to be logged. Potentially it
A new European directive could put software writers at risk of legal action, warns former programmer and technology analyst Bill Thompson. If it gets its way, the Dutch government will conclude its presidency of the European Union by pushing through a controversial measure that has been rejected by the European Parliament, lacks majority support from national governments and will leave millions of European citizens in legal limbo and facing the possibility of court cases against them. If the new law was about border controls, defence or even the new constitution, then our TV screens would be full of experts agonising over the impact on our daily lives. Sadly for those who will be directly affected, the controversy concerns the patenting of computer programs, a topic that may excite the bloggers, campaigning groups and technical press but does not obsess Middle Britain. After all, how much fuss can you generate about the Directive on the Patentability of Computer-Implemented Inventions, and the way it amends Article 52 of the 1973 European Patent Convention? Yet if the new directive is nodded through at the next meeting of one of the EU's ministerial councils, as seems likely, it will allow programs to be patented in Europe just as they are in the US. Many observers of the computing scene, including myself, think the results will be disastrous for small companies, innovative programmers and the free and open source software movement. It will let large companies patent all sorts of ideas and give legal force
Nicholas Negroponte, chairman and founder of MIT's Media Labs, says he is developing a laptop PC that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53). He told the BBC World Service programme Go Digital he hoped it would become an education tool in developing countries. He said one laptop per child could be " very important to the development of not just that child but now the whole family, village and neighbourhood". He said the child could use the laptop like a text book. He described the device as a stripped down laptop, which would run a Linux-based operating system, "We have to get the display down to below $20, to do this we need to rear project the image rather than using an ordinary flat panel. "The second trick is to get rid of the fat , if you can skinny it down you can gain speed and the ability to use smaller processors and slower memory." The device will probably be exported as a kit of parts to be assembled locally to keep costs down. Mr Negroponte said this was a not for profit venture, though he recognised that the manufacturers of the components would be making money. In 1995 Mr Negroponte published the bestselling Being Digital, now widely seen as predicting the digital age. The concept is based on experiments in the US state of Maine, where children were given laptop computers to take home and do their work on. While the idea was popular amongst
Faster, better or funkier hardware alone is not going to help phone firms sell more handsets, research suggests. Instead, phone firms keen to get more out of their customers should not just be pushing the technology for its own sake. Consumers are far more interested in how handsets fit in with their lifestyle than they are in screen size, onboard memory or the chip inside, shows an in-depth study by handset maker Ericsson. "Historically in the industry there has been too much focus on using technology," said Dr Michael Bjorn, senior advisor on mobile media at Ericsson's consumer and enterprise lab. "We have to stop saying that these technologies will change their lives," he said. "We should try to speak to consumers in their own language and help them see how it fits in with what they are doing," he told the BBC News website. For the study, Ericsson interviewed 14,000 mobile phone owners on the ways they use their phone. "People's habits remain the same," said Dr Bjorn. "They just move the activity into the mobile phone as it's a much more convenient way to do it." One good example of this was diary-writing among younger people, he said. While diaries have always been popular, a mobile phone -- especially one equipped with a camera -- helps them keep it in a different form. Youngsters' use of text messages also reflects their desire to chat and keep in contact with friends and again just lets them do it in
IBM is spending $100m (£52m) over the next three years beefing up its commitment to Linux software. The cash injection will be used to help its customers use Linux on every type of device from handheld computers and phones right up to powerful servers. IBM said the money will fund a variety of technical, research and marketing initiatives to boost Linux use. IBM said it had taken the step in response to greater customer demand for the open source software. In 2004 IBM said it had seen double digit growth in the number of customers using Linux to help staff work together more closely. The money will be used to help this push towards greater collaboration and will add Linux-based elements to IBM's Workplace software. Workplace is a suite of programs and tools that allow workers to get at core business applications no matter what device they use to connect to corporate networks. One of the main focuses of the initiative will be to make it easier to use Linux-based desktop computers and mobile devices with Workplace. Even before IBM announced this latest spending boost it was one of the biggest advocates of the open source way of working. In 2001 it put $300m into a three-year Linux program and has produced Linux versions of many of its programs. Linux and the open source software movement are based on the premise that developers should be free to tinker with the core components of software programs. They reason that more open
You can now buy "trusted computers", but can we really trust the PC vendors, asks technology analyst Bill Thompson. If you have recently bought an IBM ThinkVantage computer, a Dell Optiplex, or one of a whole range of laptops from Toshiba, HP/Compaq or Samsung then you may have got more for your money than you realised. Inside your shiny new PC is an extra chip called the trusted platform module (TPM) that can be used for a range of hardware-based security features. Eventually the TPM will be built into the main processor itself, and if the trusted computing group has its way then you will find one in every piece of hardware you own, from mobile phones to TV set top boxes to children's toys. But for the moment it is a separate piece of hardware, providing enhanced security features to programs that know how to use them. And as part of a well-designed network system, it can provide a lot more security than we enjoy today. A big advantage of the TPM is that it is hardware-based. At the moment most of us rely on software to keep our information safe and secure. It might be password-protected user accounts, data encryption programs or a firewall, but it all relies on program code running on an inherently insecure processor. Hardware security is less common, even if it is a lot safer. This is partly because it is more expensive to give someone a smartcard than a password, but also because
France has become the last big European country to launch a digital terrestrial TV (DTT) service. Initially, more than a third of the population will be able to receive 14 free-to-air channels. Despite the long wait for a French DTT roll-out, the new platform's backers hope to emulate the success of its UK free-to-air counterpart, Freeview. Recent figures from the UK's regulator Ofcom showed Freeview was more popular than the Sky digital satellite service. In the three months to September 2004, almost five times as many people signed up to the UK's free-to-air DTT service compared with Sky. Almost 60% of UK households have gone digital on at least one television set through cable, satellite or Freeview. The French DTT platform is known as TNT, which stands for TV numerique terrestre or digital terrestrial television. But it is being branded as Television Numerique pour Tous, or "digital television for all". TNT is a joint venture between public broadcaster France Televisions and a handful of cable and satellite operators. Digital terrestrial TV will launch as a free-to-air platform to start with, adding pay-TV channels later. Thirty-five contenders have bid for an additional eight frequencies on top of the 14 already allocated. "A couple of years ago, DTT had a bad image," said Olivier Gerolami, chief operating officer of TNT. "But everyone's impressed with DTT in the UK, Italy and Germany, and they realise it is a very good idea. "France is the poorest market in Europe in terms of free-to-air national
Analyst Bill Thompson has seen the future and it is in his son's hands. I bought my son Max a 3G phone, partly because they are so cheap and he needed a phone, and partly because I am supposed to know about the latest technology and thought I should see how they work in real life. After using it for a while I am not at all tempted to get rid of my SonyEricsson P800 smart phone. That has a relatively large screen, even if it does only have slower GPRS access to the network. I can read my e-mail, surf the web using a proper browser and write stuff using the stylus on its touch screen. Last week someone e-mailed me a document that had been compressed into a ZIP file, and I was pleasantly surprised to discover that my phone even knew how to decompress it for me. By contrast the confusing menus, complicated keyboard and truly irritating user interface of Max's 3G phone simply get in the way, and I did not see much value in the paid-for services, especially the limited web access. The videos of entertainment news, horoscopes and the latest celebrity gossip did not appeal, and I did not see how the small screen could be useful for any sort of image, never mind micro-TV. But then Max started playing, and I realised I was missing the point entirely. It is certainly not a great overall experience, but that is largely due to the
How many times have you wanted to have a camera to hand to catch an unexpected event that would make headlines? With a modern mobile phone that has a camera built in, you no longer need to curse, you can capture the action as it happens. Already on-the-spot snappers are helping newspapers add immediacy to their breaking news stories headlines, where professional photographers only arrive in time for the aftermath. Celebrities might not welcome such a change because they may never be free of a new breed of mobile phone paparazzi making their lives a bit more difficult. Already one tabloid newspaper in LA is issuing photographers with camera phones to help them catch celebrities at play. It could be the start of a trend that only increases as higher resolution phone cameras become more widespread; as video phones catch on and millions of people start carrying the gadgets around. Only last week, the world media highlighted the killing of the Dutch film maker Theo van Gogh, notorious after making a controversial film about Islamic culture. One day later De Telegraaf, a daily Amsterdam newspaper, became news on its own when it published a picture taken with a mobile phone of Mr van Gogh's body moments after he was killed. "This picture was the story", said De Telegraaf's image editor, Peter Schoonen. Other accounts of such picture phone users witnessing news events, include: - A flight from Switzerland to the Dominican Republic which turned around after someone took a picture
Mobiles could soon double up as travel cards, with Nokia planning to try out a wireless ticket system on German buses. Early next year travellers in the city of Hanau, near Frankfurt, will be able to pay for tickets by passing their phone over a smart-card reader already installed on the buses. Passengers will need to own a Nokia 3220 handset which will have a special shell attached to it. The system would reduce queues and make travelling easier, said Nokia. Transport systems around the world are seeing the advantage of using ticketless smartcards. Using a mobile phone is the next step, said Gerhard Romen, head of market development at Nokia. The ticketless trial will start early in 2005 and people will also be able to access transport information and timetables via their phones. Nokia has worked with electronics giant Philips to develop a shell for the mobile phone that will be compatible with Hanau's existing ticketing system. The system opens up possibilities for mobile devices to be interact with everyday environments, said Mr Romen. "It could be used in shops to get product information, at bus-stops to get information about the next bus or, for example, by being passed over an advert of a rock star to find out details of concerts or get ringtones," he told the BBC News website. He is confident that the trial being run in Germany could be extended to transport systems in other countries. "The technology offers access to a lot of services
Nokia and Microsoft have agreed a deal to work on delivery of music to handsets, while Sony Ericsson has unveiled its phone Walkman and Motorola is working on an iTunes phone. Can mobile phones replace the MP3 player in your pocket? The music download market has been growing steadily since record firms embraced digital distribution. Ease of use, relative low price and increased access to broadband has helped drive the phenomenal growth of MP3 players. Full-length music downloads on mobile phones have not taken off so quickly - held back by technical challenges as well as issues over music availability. But the mobile music industry is confident that the days of dedicated MP3 players are numbered. Gilles Babinet, chief executive of mobile music firm Musiwave, said: "Music downloads on mobiles have the potential to be the biggest-ever medium for music." Musiwave provides downloading infrastructure for the mobile phone market and Mr Babinet said the industry was enjoying "definite momentum." But there are hurdles to overcome. Mobile phones offer limited storage for music - certainly nothing to rival Apple's 60GB iPod. But the first mobile phones with hard disk players will be on the market soon and the current generation of mobiles using flash technology can store up to one gigabyte of music - enough for 250 songs. "We are working in the hard disk area and we will be bringing out exciting devices," Jonas Guest, vice president for entertainment at Nokia, told the BBC News website. But will mobiles become
Microsoft is planning to make Windows and Internet Explorer more secure by including software to give people more control over personal information. "Info cards" will help people manage personal details on their PCs to make online services safer, said Microsoft. Microsoft's two previous programs, Passport and Hailstorm, aimed to protect users but were criticised. ID fraud is one of the UK's fastest-growing crimes, with criminals netting an estimated £1.3bn last year. A quarter of UK adults has either had their ID stolen, via hi-tech or other means, or knows someone who has, a recent report by Which? magazine found. Microsoft is developing a new version of Internet Explorer browser and its operating system, Windows, which has been code-named Longhorn. Michael Stephenson, director in Microsoft's Windows Server division, would not confirm however whether the new info cards ID system will be built into the current Windows XP version or Longhorn. "We're trying to make the end-user experience as simple as possible," Mr Stephenson said. The system would differ from its previous attempts to make online transactions more secure, said Microsoft. While Passport and Hailstorm stored user information centrally on the net, the latest system will store data on a user's PC. "It's going to put control of digital IDs into the hands of an end-user, the end-user will be in full control," said Mr Stephenson. Hailstorm was criticised by privacy campaigners for putting too much sensitive information into the hands of a single company. Passport provides a single log-in for more
Making games for future consoles will require more graphic artists and more money, an industry conference has been told. Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo will debut their new consoles at the annual E3 games Expo in Los Angeles in May. These so-called "next generation" machines will be faster than current consoles, and capable of displaying much higher-quality visuals. For gamers, this should make for better, more immersive games. In a pre-recorded video slot during Microsoft's keynote address at the Game Developers Conference, held last week in San Francisco, famed director James Cameron revealed he is making a game in tandem with his next film - believed to be Battle Angel Alita. The game's visual quality would be "like a lucid dream," said Mr Cameron. But numerous speakers warned that creating such graphics will require more artists, and so next generation console games will be much more expensive to develop. The first new console, Microsoft's Xbox 2, is not expected to reach the shops until the end of 2005. Games typically take at least 18 months to create, however, so developers are grappling with the hardware today. According to Robert Walsh, head of Brisbane-based game developer Krome Studios, next generation games will cost between $10-25m to make, with teams averaging 80 staff in size taking two years to complete a title. Such sums mean it will be difficult for anyone to start a new game studio, said Mr Walsh. "If you're a start-up, I doubt that a publisher is going to walk
Computer giant Microsoft has launched a pilot scheme to replace counterfeit versions of Windows XP with legal ones. The first-time initiative is restricted to the UK and to users with pre-installed copies of the operating system in PCs bought before November. Until December Microsoft said software can be sent to it for analysis if there are doubts about its legitimacy. The company aims to detect illegal traders and turn users of fake versions of Windows into legitimate ones. The Windows XP Counterfeit Project will mean that software that is found to be counterfeit will be replaced for free, subject to certain conditions, until the end of the year. It is the first time Microsoft has launched a counterfeit product replacement scheme in the world, the company told the BBC News website. In June, the software giant said that the major security update to Windows XP, Service Pack 2, would not work with the most widely pirated versions of its operating system. The upgrade closed security loopholes in XP and added features that made it easier to keep machines safe from viruses and other types of malicious computer code. The US company invited anyone who had suspicions about their version of Windows XP to submit it for testing as soon as possible. The procedure consists of a series of computer checks, collating documents, and filling out a witness statement. "This is a great opportunity for users to confirm the authenticity of Windows XP software whilst helping gather vital information about illegal
Rock singer Pete Doherty has been involved in a fight with his band's guitarist at their biggest gig to date. Babyshambles played for 5,000 fans at London's Brixton Academy on Tuesday. The former Libertines singer traded blows with guitarist Patrick Walden. They were separated and bundled off stage before returning to end the set. The show was earlier held up due to audience overcrowding. On Monday Doherty faced blackmail and robbery charges in court, which he denies. He is out on £50,000 bail and the judge agreed to extend his 2200 GMT curfew deadline by two hours so he could play the Brixton gig. Babyshambles, which he formed after his acrimonious departure from the Libertines, played a warm-up show at The Garage, north London, on Monday. On Tuesday, Doherty and his three bandmates were introduced to the crowd by Mick Jones, the former Clash guitarist who produced the Libertines' second album. Babyshambles took the stage to a frenzied reception at 2200 GMT, launching into their last single, Killamangiro, which reached number eight in December. But the group had to stop during the next song to persuade fans not to push forward and allow security guards to pull people out of the crush. Doherty appealed to fans to calm down, saying: "There's a few people getting hurt down the front, you've got to move back." The music resumed minutes later but after several more songs, the singer appeared to accidentally disconnect Walden's guitar, leading the pair to trade kicks and punches.
Singer Pete Doherty will have to spend the weekend in jail because he could not come up with £150,000 bond money for his bail on time. The former Libertines singer had been granted bail with curfew restrictions at Highbury Corner Magistrates Court on charges of robbery and blackmail. But his lawyer said the money could not be raised on time. Mr Doherty, 25, was arrested following an alleged incident in a London hotel on Wednesday evening. Musician Alan Wass, 23, also of north London, appeared in court accused of the same offences. Magistrates imposed a range of bail conditions on Mr Doherty including a curfew between 2200 and 0700, except when he attends a drug rehabilitation centre. He was told he would not be able to leave his home without being accompanied by a security firm. He must also surrender his passport and report daily to a local police station. Mr Wass was also given a curfew and told to surrender his passport. Mr Doherty left The Libertines at the end of June 2004, but continued performing with his band Babyshambles. The singer, who has been linked to supermodel Kate Moss, was arrested after police were called to the Islington hotel in response to claims that a man had been assaulted. A man in his 30s was later taken to University College Hospital, London, with facial injuries, before being discharged. A lawyer representing Mr Doherty and Mr Wass said outside court the pair strenuously denied the charges.
The number of British films produced in the UK fell 40% in 2004, with movies starring Johnny Depp and Jude Law among those affected, Screen Daily has said. Twenty-seven British films were made in the UK last year following a drop in funding, compared with 45 in 2003, according to the trade weekly. It attributed the drop to tighter tax laws and reduced funding from sources such as the National Lottery. UK and US co-productions in Britain fell from 102 in 2003 to 81 last year. Last year the government closed tax loopholes that many film investors had taken advantage of to fund films in the UK. Several projects were shelved as they faced the implications of this clampdown, coupled with the reduction in movie funding from traditional sources including the lottery and Miramax Films. Shooting on period drama Tulip Fever, which was to star Jude Law and Keira Knightley, was postponed indefinitely while shooting of The Libertine starring Johnny Depp was moved to the Isle of Man. "There isn't anything coming in to replace (the funds)," said The Libertine's executive producer Marc Samuelson. "We are in a hiatus." Films with "medium" budgets of up to £9m, a similar level to box office hits Vera Drake, Calendar Girls and Enduring Love, are expected to be worst hit by the tax clampdown. The strength of the pound against the dollar is expected to have resulted in a fall in the number of US films shot in the UK during 2004, Screen
Film star Robert De Niro has returned to the top of the North American box office with his film Hide and Seek. The thriller shot straight to the number one spot after taking $22m (£11.7m) at the box office. De Niro recently spent three weeks at the top with comedy Meet The Fockers, which was at number five this week. Oscar hopefuls The Aviator, Million Dollar Baby and Sideways all cashed in on their multiple nominations with stronger ticket sales. In Hide and Seek, De Niro plays a widower whose daughter has a creepy imaginary friend. Despite lukewarm reviews from critics, the film took more than the expected $18m (£9.5m). "The element of a real actor in a psychological thriller certainly elevated it," said Bruce Snyder, president of domestic distribution at 20th Century Fox. Clint Eastwood's Million Dollar Baby led the Oscar hopefuls with $11.8m (£6.3m), coming in at number three during its first weekend of wide release. The Aviator, a film biography of Howard Hughes that leads the Oscar field with 11 nominations, was at number six for the weekend with $7.5m (£4m). Oscar best-picture nominee Sideways entered the top ten for the first time in its 15th week of release. It came in seventh $6.3 (£3.35m). Last week's top film, Ice Cube's road-trip comedy Are We There Yet?, slipped to second place with $17m (£9m), while Coach Carter fell two places to number four, taking $8m (£4.25m) in its third week. Rounding out the top ten were In
Ray Charles, who has won a string of posthumous Grammy Awards, belonged to a pioneering generation of artists that had a huge influence on the course of rock and pop music. His sound encompassed so many styles - blues, gospel, jazz, rock 'n' roll, even country - and had a real impact on the nascent UK beat and R&B scenes. Compared in stature to Elvis Presley by some commentators, Charles' songs cast their spell on such 1960s stalwarts as Joe Cocker, Steve Winwood, Eric Burdon and Van Morrison. His influence has extended to contemporary artists such as Norah Jones, with whom he recently recorded a duet. If James Brown was the godfather of soul, then Ray Charles was indisputably one of its founding fathers. Along with Sam Cooke, he was instrumental in bringing together the gospel fervour of the deep south Baptist church with the "devil's" music of R&B to pave the way for a new generation of soul artists. Without Charles, it is hard to imagine the tear-stained Atlantic R&B sound of Aretha Franklin, Otis Redding or Wilson Pickett. He was also a talented jazz composer, arranger and band leader, playing at the Newport Jazz Festival and Carnegie Hall and recording with noted jazz musicians such as Milt Jackson and David "Fathead" Newman. Unfortunately, he also shared another trait common among many jazz artists of the era - that of heroin addiction, which led to him being arrested in 1965. His string of 1950s Atlantic R&B successes included songs
Ocean's Twelve, the crime caper sequel starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts, has gone straight to number one in the US box office chart. It took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales, according to studio estimates. The sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across Europe. It knocked last week's number one, National Treasure, into third place. Wesley Snipes' Blade: Trinity was in second, taking $16.1m (£8.4m). Rounding out the top five was animated fable The Polar Express, starring Tom Hanks, and festive comedy Christmas with the Kranks. Ocean's Twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a December release in the US, after the three films in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. The sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor, Ocean's Eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. A remake of the 1960s film, starring Frank Sinatra and the Rat Pack, Ocean's Eleven was directed by Oscar-winning director Steven Soderbergh. Soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites Clooney, Pitt and Roberts with Matt Damon, Andy Garcia and Elliott Gould. Catherine Zeta-Jones joins the all-star cast. "It's just a fun, good holiday movie," said Dan Fellman, president of distribution at Warner Bros. However, US critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project, with the Los Angeles Times labelling it a "dispiriting vanity project". A milder review in the New York Times dubbed the sequel "unabashedly trivial".
Rap star Jay-Z is to become a record company executive after being put in charge of one of hip-hop's most influential labels, Def Jam. Jay-Z, who said he would make no more music after 2003's The Black Album, will become the company's president and chief executive from January. Def Jam's parent company, Universal, made the appointment after buying Jay-Z's Roc-A-Fella label. Def Jam's artists include LL Cool J, DMX, Ludacris, Ja Rule and Ashanti. Jay-Z will continue to run Roc-A-Fella, which he founded with Damon Dash in 1995 and has Kanye West and Beanie Sigel on its roster. Universal said on Wednesday it had bought the 50% of Roc-A-Fella it did not already own. Antonio "LA" Reid, chairman of The Island Def Jam Music Group, said: "I can think of no-one more relevant and credible in the hip-hop community to build upon Def Jam's fantastic legacy." He hoped Jay-Z would "move the company into its next groundbreaking era", he added. Jay-Z, real name Shawn Carter, said: "I have inherited two of the most important brands in hip-hop, Def Jam and Roc-A-Fella. "I feel this is a giant step for me and the entire artist community." One of the most successful and respected rap stars of the last eight years, Jay-Z's hits have included Hard Knock Life, Dirt Off Your Shoulder and 03 Bonnie and Clyde with his girlfriend Beyonce Knowles. He said he would retire after The Black Album, but has just released an album and been on an ill-fated
The Aviator has been tipped by UK bookmakers as the favourite to win the best film award at this year's Oscars. Ray star Jamie Foxx is clear favourite in the best actor category while Million Dollar Baby's Hilary Swank is tipped to win the best actress prize. Bookmakers predict Cate Blanchett will be named best supporting actress. William Hill and Ladbrokes have given The Aviator 4/9 and 8/13 odds of winning best film, with Million Dollar Baby in second place at 9/4. Bet Direct and Bet 365 also tip The Aviator, with the majority of bookmakers regarding Finding Neverland as the outsider. The Aviator is also widely tipped to win the best director prize for Martin Scorsese. British star Clive Owen is second favourite at William Hill to take the best supporting actor award, for his performance in Closer. The favourite in that category is Sideways star Thomas Hayden Church. Vera Drake star Imelda Staunton has 5/1 odds of winning the best actress Oscar at Bet 365 and William Hill, ahead of fellow UK star Kate Winslet who has odds of 25/1 at William Hill. Mike Leigh is the outsider in the best director category for Vera Drake, a position he holds jointly with Ray's Taylor Hackford at bookmakers VC Bet. This year's Academy Awards will be handed out in Hollywood on 27 February. X Factor judge Sharon Osbourne will present Sky television's live coverage of the event. Meanwhile, Clive Owen's best supporting actor nomination has led a bookmaker to
Actor Daniel Day-Lewis is to be presented with an award for his career in film at the Berlin Film Festival. The 47-year-old, whose credits include his Oscar-winning performance in My Left Foot, will be presented with the Berlinale Camera award on 15 February. The honour, awarded since 1986, honours figures in cinema that the festival feels "particularly indebted to". Man to Man, a historical epic starring Kristin Scott Thomas, opens the German festival on 10 February. A candid documentary about the life and career of singer George Michael, A Different Story will also be screened at the 10-day event. ' Day-Lewis has competed four times at the Berlin Film Festival, with films In The Name Of The Father (1994), The Crucible (1997), The Boxer (1998) and Martin Scorsese's Gangs Of New York (2003). The festival praises him for his "sensational start" with roles in My Beautiful Launderette and costume classic A Room With A View, and a "great number of celebrated roles" in subsequent productions. Japan's oldest film studio will also be honoured along with Day-Lewis. Shochiku film studios, which was founded 110 years ago, will become the first cinematic institution to receive the Berlinale Camera award. Famous Japanese directors including Akira Hurosawa have had films produced at the studio.
Pop star Christina Aguilera is to marry music executive Jordan Bratman, the singer's agent has confirmed. Bratman, 26, proposed to Grammy-winning singer Aguilera, 23, on holiday at an undisclosed location. The pair have been together for more than two years. "No wedding plans have been set yet," said Aguilera's agent Meghan Prophet. Aguilera burst onto the pop scene in 1999, winning a best new artist Grammy in 2000. Her hits include What a Girl Wants, Dirrty and Beautiful. Bratman presented his fiancee with a diamond ring designed by jeweller Stephen Webster on Friday, said Ms Prophet. New York-born Aguilera reached number one in the UK with her debut hit Genie in a Bottle in October 1999. Her early success was cemented by two further Grammys in subsequent years. In 2002, Aguilera won best pop collaboration for the hit track Lady Marmalade with Lil' Kim, Maya and Pink, and last year she picked up the award for best female pop vocal performance for Beautiful. Her most recent single, Car Wash, featuring Missy Elliott, reached number four in the UK charts last November.
The memory of soul legend Ray Charles dominated the music world's leading music ceremony on Sunday as he was given eight posthumous Grammy Awards. Charles, who died in 2004, got honours including record and album of the year, while Alicia Keys and actor Jamie Foxx performed a musical tribute to him. R&B star Keys won four awards herself at the Grammy ceremony in Los Angeles. U2, Usher, Norah Jones and Kanye West got three each. West led the race going into the ceremony with 10 nominations. Charles' last album, Genius Loves Company, a collection of duets that has sold more than two million copies, was named album of the year and best pop vocal album. His song Here We Go Again with Norah Jones won record of the year and best pop vocal collaboration, while Heaven Help Us All with Gladys Knight picked up best gospel performance. Jones said: "I'm glad he's getting recognised, because of who he is and how much I love him." Actor Jamie Foxx - who is nominated for an Oscar for playing Charles in the hit movie Ray - dedicated a rendition of Georgia on My Mind to "old friends". Keys, looking to replicate her Grammys success of 2002, when she won five, picked up best R&B song for You Don't Know My Name and best R&B album for The Diary of Alicia Keys. She also shared the award for best R&B vocal performance by a duo or group with Usher for My Boo. Usher's
The Streets, aka British rapper and songwriter, Mike Skinner have topped a poll to find the year's best album. A Grand Don't Come for Free beat Keane's Hope and Fears in second place with Franz Ferdinand's self-titled album third, in the Q magazine poll. Skinner uses blunt beats under streetwise lyrics about such things as falling in love and drink and drugs. Q Magazine said: "A Grand Don't Come for Free captured the country's mood in a way no one could have predicted." A Grand Don't Come for Free is the second album from The Streets. It followed Original Pirate Material. Q Magazine also had praise for the runners-up in the poll. Keane's Hopes and Fears, was described as a "revelatory debut" which showed "they had songwriting flair to spare". It also said Franz Ferdinand's album sounded "natural, unforced (and) under-produced". Rock band U2's latest album How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb came fourth while Razorlight's Up All Night was in fifth place. Others notables on the list included Dizzee Rascal in at number 12 and The Zutons at 20. Estelle came in at 39, Joss Stone was 40th and Jamelia took the 44th place.
Stan Lee, the man responsible for a string of comic superheroes that have become household names, has won a court battle for a slice of the profits from the hit Spider-Man movies. Many marvel at the man who gave his characters extraordinary powers and everyday headaches - a formula which revolutionised comics. Born in 1922 to poor working-class Jewish immigrants from Romania, Stan Lieberman, got a job in Timely Publications, a company owned by a relative. He was assigned to the comics division and - thanks to a fertile imagination - rose to editor by the age of 18. For more than 20 years, he was "the ultimate hack" - knocking out crime stories, horrors, westerns, anything to sate the appetite of his juvenile readership. Words of more than two syllables were discouraged. Characters were either all good or bad, with no shades of grey. So embarrassed was Lieberman by much of what he was writing that he refused to put his real name on the byline. He assumed the "dumb name", Stan Lee, now legally adopted. By the time he was 40, Lee had decided he was too old for the comic game. His British-born wife, Joan, suggested he had nothing to lose and, for his swansong, should write the kind of characters he really wanted to create. After a rival comic had come up with a superteam consisting of Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, Timely needed to respond. Lee's answer, in 1961, was the Fantastic Four - a
A film that follows a group of alienated youth in a Paris suburb as they prepare to perform an 18th Century play has won France's top cinema award. L'Esquive earned a Cesar prize for its director, Tunisian-born Abdellatif Kechiche, and its young star, the 18-year-old actress Sara Forestier. It saw off competition from big-budget French epic, A Very Long Engagement, and the box-office hit, The Chorus. US film Lost in Translation won the award for best foreign feature. The wistful romantic comedy directed by Sofia Coppola has already won several awards, including an Oscar for best screenplay in 2004. Its late release in France made it a contender for this year's Cesars. The low-budget L'Esquive depicts the travails of a group of youth getting ready to perform a school play by the 18th-Century dramatist, Marivaux. The actors are mostly amateurs and the action is set in the impoverished suburbs of Paris, home to thousands of immigrants from North Africa and their children. Kechiche said he made the film because he "wanted to show people we don't normally see at the cinema". A Very Long Engagement, a World War I drama featuring Audrey Tautou, won five Cesar awards. The Chorus, a film about a schoolteacher who introduces an unruly classroom to the pleasures of classical singing, won two awards - for best music and best sound. US actor Will Smith, who won an honorary award at the ceremony, thanked his family and his "hero", Nelson Mandela, in his speech.
The German music business - the third largest in the world - is "in the state of a zombie" because it has failed to respond to the challenge posed by downloading and piracy, a leading industry figure has said. Tim Renner, the head of Universal Music Germany until last year, told BBC World Service's The Music Biz programme that the country's music industry was now struggling to survive. Renner warned that unless the industry accepted "new realties" - such as downloading - its decline could become irreversible. "The problem the music industry has got is that they aren't willing to accept that the classic way of doing business is over and out," he stated. "So the music industry in its current form over here is pretty much in the state of a zombie." The music market in Germany peaked in 1997, with sales of 2.6bn euros (£1.8bn). Since 2000, sales have plummeted to just 1.6bn euros (£1.1bn) in 2003. In the space of one year - between 2002 and 2003 - CD album sales fell by 13.8%. But a study by the Society for Consumer Research found that at the same time, more than twice as many recordable CDs had music recorded on them than CD albums were sold. Mr Renner pointed out that, because profit comes mainly from the longevity of a good-selling record, this was particularly damaging. "You need time," he added. However, Peter Zombic, the managing director of the International Federation of Phonographic Industry in Germany, said
Conductor Marcello Viotti, director of Venice's famous La Fenice Theatre, has died in Germany at 50. Viotti, director of La Fenice since 2002, conducted at renowned opera houses worldwide including Milan's La Scala and the Vienna State Opera. His time at La Fenice coincided with its reopening in 2003 after it was destroyed by fire in 1996. He fell into a coma after suffering a stroke during rehearsals for Jules Massenet's Manon last week. He conducted some of the best orchestras in the world including the Berlin Philharmonic and the English Chamber Orchestra. Viotti was born in Switzerland and studied the piano, cello and singing at the Lausanne Conservatory. His career breakthrough came in 1982 when he won first prize at the Gino Marinuzzi conducting competition in Italy. Viotti established himself as chief conductor of the Turin Opera and went on to become chief conductor of Munich's Radio Orchestra. At La Fenice Viotti was widely acclaimed for his production of the French composer Massenet's Thais and some of his other productions included Giuseppe Verdi's La Traviata and Richard Strauss's Ariadne auf Naxos. The last opera he directed at La Fenice was Massenet's Le Roi de Lahore. Viotti's debut at the New York's Metropolitan Opera came in 2000 with Giacomo Puccini's Madame Butterfly, followed by La Boheme, La Traviata and Fromental Halevy's La Juive. Giampaolo Vianello, superintendent of the Fenice Theatre Foundation, said: "I am filled with extreme sadness because, other than a great artist, he is missed as a friend
Sir Elton John has performed at a special concert in Paris to raise money for the victims of the Asian tsunami. The British singer played to a 2,700-strong audience on Sunday at the French capital's Bastille opera house. The concert was also part of an attempt to bring a broader range of events to the famous venue. Money raised will go to the Fondation pour l'Enfance (Foundation for Childhood) which aims to rebuild a children's shelter in Sri Lanka. Sir Elton played hits from his vast back catalogue to a sell-out crowd which included former French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing and his wife Anne-Aymone. The veteran pop star played piano accompaniment throughout the concert which lasted for three hours without an interval. He told the crowd: "Throughout the years, I've done a lot of drugs and alcohol. It's true that I was a nightmare, impossible. For the last 14 years I've been normal. Now my drug is called David" - a reference to David Furnish, his partner. The crowd, who greeted each song with a standing ovation, also included French singer Charles Aznavour and British ambassador Sir John Holmes. Sir Elton has also teamed up with Phil Collins to record a version of Eric Clapton's 1991 hit Tears In Heaven to raise money for the relief fund. A release date has yet to be set for the recording, which was organised by Sharon Osbourne.
Organisers of the third Bangkok International Film Festival have been determined to carry on with this year's event despite the ravages of the Asian tsunami disaster. The festivities have been scaled down, red carpets have been mothballed and profits from ticket sales are being donated to the tsunami relief fund. Apart from this, however, the festival has continued as originally planned. "When the disaster happened, we naturally asked ourselves if we should cancel," said the festival's executive director, Craig Prater. "The decision was made that we would continue, but that the focus would change. "Our premieres became fundraisers, the opening night was visibly toned down and 10% of every ticket sold goes to the disaster fund," he continued. "But we feel like we've turned a page. We've acknowledged our position, and now it's business as usual." Mr Prater's sentiments were echoed by Christine Rush, director of the festival's sister event, the Bangkok Film Market. "We have been careful to be respectful of the Thai nation's recovery from this terrible disaster," she said. "However, the nation's recovery very much depends upon it continuing its economic life. "We are encouraging attendees to keep the victims in mind and aggressively support the aid organisations helping out," she added. Given the conspicuously low audience figures, that support may be more symbolic than significant. However, poor ticket sales have less to do with any fallout from the disaster and more to do with administrative and promotional difficulties. The eclectic programme contains a wide range of
The remaining members of rock band Queen are to go on tour next year with former Free and Bad Company singer Paul Rodgers taking Freddie Mercury's place. Guitarist Brian May has said he expects to be on the road with Rodgers and drummer Roger Taylor from April. May said: "Suddenly the Queen Phoenix is rising again from the ashes and will take precedence over... our lives." Queen have played with many different singers since Mercury's death in 1991 but have reportedly not toured. May performed with Rodgers at a concert to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Fender Stratocaster guitar in London in September. "We were both so amazed at the chemistry that was going on in [Free hit] All Right Now, that suddenly it seems blindingly obvious that there was 'something happening here,'" May wrote on his website. They teamed up again for a concert to mark their induction into the UK Music Hall of Fame, and were joined by Taylor. "The show went so incredibly well from our point of view, and we got so many rave reactions from out there, we decided almost then and there that we would look at a tour together," May wrote. Queen went to number one in 2000 with a version of We Will Rock You sung by boy band 5ive and they have also played with Robbie Williams, Will Young and Bob Geldof. Queen bassist John Deacon has currently retired from the stage. Rodgers was singer with early 1970s rockers Free,
The classic film It's A Wonderful Life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show Jerry Springer - The Opera. Frank Capra's 1946 movie starring James Stewart, is being turned into a £7m musical by producer Jon Thoday. He is working with Steve Brown, who wrote the award-winning musical Spend Spend Spend. A spokeswoman said the plans were in the "very early stages", with no cast, opening date or theatre announced. A series of workshops have been held in London, and on Wednesday a cast of singers unveiled the musical to a select group of potential investors. Mr Thoday said the idea of turning the film into a musical had been an ambition of his for almost 20 years. It's a Wonderful Life was based on a short story, The Greatest Gift, by Philip van Doren Stern. Mr Thoday managed to buy the rights to the story from Van Doren Stern's family in 1999, following Mr Brown's success with Spend Spend Spend. He later secured the film rights from Paramount, enabling them to use the title It's A Wonderful Life.
Coronation Street has become the first soap to triumph at the South Bank Show Awards, which traditionally reward highbrow and groundbreaking culture. The soap beat fellow ITV1 show Filthy Love and Channel 4's Shameless to win the best TV drama prize on Thursday. Little Britain was named best comedy while Franz Ferdinand beat Morrissey and The Libertines to the music award. Shane Meadows' Dead Man's Shoes picked up the best film award, beating Shaun of the Dead and My Summer of Love. The two award ceremonies reflect the achievements the industry believes have been made in the last year. In 2004, Coronation Street pulled away from its BBC One rival EastEnders in the ratings and dominated other TV awards. Last year, the South Bank Award for best TV drama went to Steven Poliakoff's period piece The Lost Prince, while Bloody Sunday, about the 1972 killings in Northern Ireland, won in 2003. In other South Bank categories, Little Britain's second series beat Nighty Night and The Green Wing to the comedy trophy while Alan Bennett's The History Boys won in the theatre category. Author David Mitchell made up for losing out in the Booker Prize to Alan Hollinghurst by beating him to the literary award with his book Cloud Atlas. Shameless, State Of Play and Clocking Off creator Paul Abbott got a lifetime achievement award while former Grange Hill actress Amma Asante won the breakthrough award for writing and directing her first film, A Way Of Life.
Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne will join EastEnders' actress Scarlett Johnson on BBC One's Strictly Ice Dancing. The one-off Christmas special will also star television presenter Carol Smillie and Jessica Taylor from Liberty-X. Each celebrity will be paired with a professional skater to impress a panel of judges and win the audience vote. The BBC is yet to confirm the final two stars who will battle it out to become Ice King or Queen. Veteran presenter Bruce Forsyth and Tess Daly will host the programme, which follows hot on the heels of the current Saturday night series Strictly Come Dancing. The celebrities will have to practise a stipulated ice dance and perform it at an ice rink with their partner. The judges will have 50% of the vote to decide who wins the contest, with the ice rink audience making up the rest of the vote. The show forms part of the BBC's festive schedule. Ice skating duo Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean are to front a similar celebrity ice dance show for ITV, titled Stars on Thin Ice. The contestants on Stars on Thin Ice will each be paired up with a professional skater and will learn a new routine every week. At the end of the series, one celebrity will be crowned the winner.
India has ordered the deportation of Iranian-born model and actress Negar Khan to Norway after saying she was working illegally on her visa. Khan has had raunchy roles in music videos and Bollywood films over the past two years. The distressed actress told media she was being driven straight to the airport after a routine appointment at the Bombay immigration office. Immigration officials said she had been warned about her visa last year. Khan told an Indian news channel on her mobile phone: "They are not even letting me go home to get my bags. I have no clothes or money on me. "They did not give me any notice. I don't know why they are taking me away like this. There is nothing wrong with my visa. It says I work here... They are not allowing me to even call a lawyer." Bipin Bihari, deputy police chief in Bombay, said Khan was being sent back to Norway, from which she holds a passport, on the first available flight. "She was on a visitor's visa but she has engaged in several commercial ventures," he said. "We issued notices last year, in view of which she had gone back to Norway, but she has returned again this year to work." One of Khan's biggest successes was the steamy Hindi song Chadti Jawani (Rising Youth). Khan was involved in controversy when topless photos alleged to be of her appeared in a Norwegian magazine.
Prince earned more than any other pop star in 2004, beating artists such Madonna and Elton John in US magazine Rolling Stone's annual list. The singer banked $56.5m (£30.4m) from concerts, album and publishing sales with his Musicology tour and album. He kept Madonna in second place, as she earned $54.9m (£29.5m) while embarking on her global Re-Invention Tour. Veterans Simon and Garfunkel were in 10th place, their comeback tour helping them earn $24.9m (£13.4m) last year. "Prince returned to centre stage after a decade in the commercial wilderness," the magazine reported. The singer's 2004 tour took $90.3m (£48.5m) in ticket sales and he sold 1.9 million copies of his latest album Musicology. Although she grossed more than Prince last year, Madonna remained in second place because of the "monumental" production costs of her tour. Heavy metal band Metallica's Madly in Anger with the World tour helped push their 2004 earnings up to $43.1m (£23.1m). They were ahead of Sir Elton John, who took fourth place and almost $42.7m (£23m) from performances including a debut on the Las Vegas Strip. Other seasoned performers in the list included Rod Stewart, whose sold-out shows and third volume of The Great American Songbook covers album helped net him £35m (£19m). The highest-ranking rap act in the list was 50 Cent, who at number 19 took $24m (£13m) to the bank.
French musician Jean-Michel Jarre is to perform at a concert in Copenhagen to mark the bicentennial of the birth of writer Hans Christian Andersen. Denmark is holding a three-day celebration of the life of the fairy-tale author, with a concert at Parken stadium on 2 April. Other stars are expected to join the line-up in the coming months, and the Danish royal family will attend. "Christian Andersen's fairy tales are timeless and universal," said Jarre. "For all of us, at any age there is always - beyond the pure enjoyment of the tale - a message to learn." There are year-long celebrations planned across the world to celebrate Andersen and his work, which includes The Emperor's New Clothes and The Little Mermaid. Denmark's Crown Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Mary visited New York on Monday to help promote the festivities. The pair were at a Manhattan library to honour US literary critic Harold Bloom "the international icon we thought we knew so well". "Bloom recognizes the darker aspects of Andersen's authorship," Prince Frederik said. Bloom is to be formally presented with the Hans Christian Andersen Award this spring in Anderson's hometown of Odense. The royal couple also visited the Hans Christian Anderson School complex, where Queen Mary read The Ugly Duckling to the young audience. Later at a gala dinner, Danish supermodel Helena Christensen was named a Hans Christian Andersen ambassador. Other ambassadors include actors Harvey Keitel and Sir Roger Moore, athlete Cathy Freeman and Brazilian soccer legend Pele.
The debut of US television hit Desperate Housewives has helped lift Channel 4's January audience share by 12% compared to last year. Other successes such as Celebrity Big Brother and The Simpsons have enabled the broadcaster to surpass BBC2 for the first month since last July. However the channel's share of the audience fell from 11.2% to 9.6% last month in comparison with January 2004. Celebrity Big Brother attracted less viewers than its 2002 series. Comedy drama Desperate Housewives managed to pull in five million viewers at one point during its run to date, attracting a quarter of the television audience. The two main television channels, BBC1 and ITV1, have both seen their monthly audience share decline in a year on year comparison for January, while Five's proportion remained the same at a slender 6.3%. Digital multi-channel TV is continuing to be the strongest area of growth, with the BBC reporting Freeview box ownership of five million, including one million sales in the last portion of 2004. Its share of the audience soared by 20% in January 2005 compared with last year, and currently stands at an average of 28.6%.
Ipod owners can now download the Band Aid single from iTunes after Apple reached agreement with the charity. Apple had been unwilling to raise the cost of the single in line with other download services, said Band Aid. But the single is now on sale for 79p - the usual cost of a song from iTunes - with Apple donating a further 70p to the charity for each song downloaded. A copy of the original 1984 song is also available for download at 79p - with all proceeds going to the charity. More than 72,000 copies of the new Band Aid single were sold on its first day of release on Monday, according to sales figures. The track has become the fastest-selling single of the year so far, shifting more copies than the rest of the top 30 combined, HMV claimed. Dido, Robbie Williams and Chris Martin are among those featured on the new version of Do They Know It's Christmas?, which is raising money to fight hunger in Africa. If the track sold 500,000 copies, more than £1m would be raised for charity. The CD is being sold for £3.99, with HMV, Virgin and Woolworths all donating their profits.
French booksellers are braced for a rush of interest after another book from the author of The Da Vinci Code is translated into French. Angels and Demons, by US author Dan Brown, will go on sale on Wednesday. The Da Vinci Code is set in Paris - including the Louvre - and has sold around one million copies in France. The main character, Robert Langdon, also appears in Angels and Demons. The Da Vinci Code is being made into a film starring Tom Hanks. Angels and Demons was written before The Da Vinci Code, which has sold more than 20 million copies worldwide, and been translated into more than 40 languages, since it was released in 2003. Angels and Demons is set mainly in Rome as symbologist Robert Langdon follows a 400-year-old trail to try to uncover a plot by an ancient brotherhood, The Illuminati, to blow up the Vatican. The novel deals with moral issues such as the debate between science and religion and also seeks to uncover some of the mysteries surrounding the Pope. On his website, Brown wrote: "I think the reason Angels and Demons is raising eyebrows right now is that it opens some Vatican closets most people don't even know exist. "But I think most people understand that an organisation as old and powerful as the Vatican could not possibly have risen to power without acquiring a few skeletons in their closets." Such is the success of The Da Vinci Code in France, special tours
R&B star Alicia Keys is to open February's Super Bowl singing a song only previously performed there by Ray Charles and Vicki Carr. Keys, who will sing America the Beautiful, will be accompanied by 150 students from the Florida School for the Deaf and the Blind. Charles, who died last year, attended the school as a child in 1937. Keys said she was "very excited", describing Charles as "an artist I admire, miss and respect". "I know that this is going to be a very touching and memorable moment," she said. It will be her first performance at the Super Bowl, which will be watched by millions in the US on 6 February. Sir Paul McCartney will provide the half-time entertainment in the slot filled by Janet Jackson last year. Organisers have promised there will be no repeat of her nipple-baring incident that sparked thousands of complaints on US TV's most-watched broadcast. A National Football League spokesman said they were "comfortable" this show would be acceptable to a mass audience. The game and show were watched by 144 million people in the US in 2003. Twenty CBS-owned TV stations were fined $550,000 (£300,000) by the country's TV regulatory agency after more than 542,000 complaints were made about Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction". Sir Paul said: "There's nothing bigger than being asked to perform at the Super Bowl. "We're looking forward to rocking the millions at home and in the stadium."
A book about the evolution of mutants and the science of abnormality has won the Guardian First Book Award 2004. Armand Marie Leroi, a lecturer at London's Imperial College, scooped the £10,000 prize for Mutants: On the form, varieties and errors of the human body. "It is profoundly cultured and beautifully written in the very best tradition of popular science writing today," said judge Claire Armistead. The award recognises and rewards new writing across fiction and non-fiction. A panel of literary experts, including novelists Hari Kunzru and Ali Smith, director Sir Richard Eyre and comedian Alexei Sayle chose the winner from a five-strong shortlist. The shortlist included Susanna Clarke's Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, a novel about the magic arts at the turn of the 19th Century and The Places In Between, Rory Stewart's account of his trek, on foot, across Afghanistan. "What we found so impressive about Armand Marie Leroi's book was the scope of its reference, its elegance and its inquisitiveness," said Ms Armistead, chair of the judges and the Guardian literary editor. "While the subject matter of Mutants unsettled some involved in the judging process, the overwhelming majority found it fascinating," she added. Her words were echoed by Iris director Sir Richard Eyre who called Marie Leroi's work "extraordinarily thought provoking". The award, for first time authors, is open to books from genres including fiction, poetry, biography, memoir, history, politics, science and current affairs. Previous winners include White Teeth by Zadie Smith, in 2000, which went on
The finale of ITV1's I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here drew an average of 10.9m viewers - about four million fewer than the previous series. The fourth series of the show peaked on Monday at 11.9m and 49.2% of the audience, just before Joe Pasquale won. This compared with a peak of 15.3m at and a record 62.2% of the TV audience when Kerry McFadden won in February. Comic Pasquale beat former Royal butler Paul Burrell who came second, nightclub owner Fran Cosgrave, who was third. Pasquale follows Kerry McFadden, Phil Tufnell and Tony Blackburn as winners of the show. Singer and TV presenter McFadden was the show's first female winner. When cricketer Phil Tufnell won in May 2003, 12.3 million people - 50% of the viewing public - tuned in to watch. And when Tony Blackburn won the first show in 2002, 10.9 million people saw the show. Pasquale had been the show's hottest ever favourite to win, and its hosts Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly, known as Ant and Dec, said Monday's deciding vote was the closest in the programme's history. Pascuale has been flooded with offers of TV work, according to his management company, but one of his first jobs on his return is pantomime. Before joining I'm a Celebrity, he had signed up to play Jack in Jack and the Beanstalk in Birmingham, and tickets for the show have become increasingly popular since he joined the TV show. His manager Robert Voice said: "We've
The new version of the Band Aid song Do They Know It's Christmas? has gone straight in at number one in the UK singles chart. The charity record is also tipped to be this year's Christmas number one. It features vocals from the likes of Chris Martin, Dido, Robbie Williams and the Sugababes. The original version - which was the Christmas number one in 1984 - sold 750,000 copies in its first week and 3.5 million in total. It was released in the US, and reached number 13 in the singles chart. However, Band Aid 20 is not going to be released in the US, despite being sold in many countries around the world. US record shops are stocking an import version of Do They Know It's Christmas, which is said to be selling very well in Los Angeles and New York. British stars who appear on the current recording, such as Dido and Coldplay's Chris Martin, are well known to music fans across the Atlantic, along with U2 frontman Bono. Record company Universal is responsible for the global distribution of the single, which will be available across Europe, Asia, South America and Canada. But music fans in the US are still able to access the song and download it on Band Aid 20's official website. In 1985, a group of high-profile American stars known as USA For Africa came together to record their own fund-raising single, We Are The World. The song was written by Lionel Richie and Michael
British hopes of winning major Oscars were dashed as UK stars failed to win acting and directing prizes. Despite three nominations, Mike Leigh's Vera Drake failed to take the director or screenplay awards and there was no prize for star Imelda Staunton. Kate Winslet also lost to best actress Hilary Swank, while Clive Owen and Sophie Okonedo failed to win best supporting actor awards. The UK's Andrea Arnold won the short film award for her gritty drama Wasp. Arnold, who presented children's television shows Number 73 and Motormouth in the 1980s, said it was "totally overwhelming" to win. Wasp tells the story of a single mother living on the breadline, beating films by fellow UK nominees Gary McKendry and Ashvin Kumar. "Everyone worked extremely hard - they know who they are," Arnold said as she accepted the prize. "The beers are on me when we get home." Earlier British costume designer Sandy Powell won the Oscar for The Aviator, beating Finding Neverland's UK designer Alexandra Byrne in the process. "I'm very thrilled for the film and all the people who worked with me," said Ms Powell. "Hopefully I'll be staying up to celebrate - I've been sick for three days and want to make it through the night." The British visual effects team behind Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban were less fortunate, however, losing the Oscar in that category to Spider-Man 2. Before Sunday's ceremony Owen was bookmakers' favourite for his role in romantic drama Closer that had
A saxophone belonging to legendary jazz musician Charlie Parker is expected to fetch up to $1m (£535,000) at an auction of jazz memorabilia next month. The sale, at Guernsey's Auction House in New York, will feature instruments from other musicians including John Coltrane and Benny Goodman. Other items will include an evening gown belonging to Ella Fitzgerald. Organisers said the auction was the first in the US to be devoted to items belonging to jazz musicians. Other items that will be auctioned include unreleased tape recordings of music by Parker as well as handwritten sheet music by jazz composers John Coltrane and Theolonius Monk. Among the instruments in the sale will be a trumpet which belonged to Dizzy Gillespie, which is expected to fetch around $500,000 (£267,000), as well as JJ Johnson's trombone and a vibraphone which beloned to Lionel Hampton. Works of art by musicians including Miles Davis and Bruni Sablan will also be featured. The proceeds from the auction, which will take place on 20 February, will go towards several organisations including the John Coltrane Foundation, a foundation set up in memory of Benny Goodman, and the Red Cross.
Film stars from across the globe are preparing to walk the red carpet at this year's Bafta award ceremony. The 2005 Orange British Academy Film Awards are being held at The Odeon in London's Leicester Square. A host of Hollywood stars, including Cate Blanchett, Leonardo DiCaprio, Keanu Reeves and Richard Gere, are expected to attend Saturday's ceremony. Hosted by Stephen Fry, the glittering ceremony will be broadcast on BBC One at 2010 GMT. Other actors expected to add to the glamour of the biggest night in UK film are Gael Garcia Bernal, Imelda Staunton, Diane Kruger, Christian Slater, Anjelica Huston, Helen Mirren and former James Bond star Pierce Brosnan. Hollywood blockbuster The Aviator, starring DiCaprio, leads the field with 14 nominations, including best film. It is up against Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Finding Neverland, The Motorcycle Diaries and British film Vera Drake, which has 11 nominations. British hope Imelda Staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. Other nominees in the best actress category include Charlize Theron for Monster, Ziyi Zhang for House of Flying Daggers and UK star Kate Winslet, who has two nods for her roles in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Finding Neverland. DiCaprio faces competition from Bernal, Jamie Foxx, Jim Carrey and Johnny Depp in the best actor category. And British actor Clive Owen is hoping to repeat his Golden Globe success with a best supporting
US comedian Bill Cosby will not face charges stemming from an allegation of sexual misconduct. Authorities in Philadelphia said they found insufficient evidence to support the woman's allegations regarding an alleged incident in January 2004. The woman reported the allegations to Canadian authorities last month. Cosby's lawyer, Walter M Phillips Jr, said the comedian was pleased with the decision. "He looks forward to moving on with his life," he said. District Attorney Bruce L Castor Jr, who was in charge of the case, said that detectives could find no instance "where anyone complained to law enforcement of conduct which would constitute a criminal offence. He also said that the fact the woman waited a year before coming forward, and she had had further contact with Cosby during that time, were also factors in his decision. The unidentified woman's lawyer, Dolores M Troiani, said her client was likely to sue the comedian. "I think that's the only avenue open to her. She felt, as we did, that it's a very strong case and she was telling the truth." She also said that the woman supplied further evidence to prosecutors that she believed strengthened her allegations. Cosby emerged as one of the first black comics to have mainstream success in the US. He was a successful stand-up before hosting the children's show Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids, and starring in The Cosby Show, one of the biggest sitcoms of the 1980s.
Media giant Viacom has paid out $3.5m (£1.8m) to end investigations into indecency in its US radio and TV shows. The settlement to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ends a long-running saga dating back to 2001. The FCC was looking into 50 shows, including those by "shock jock" Howard Stern and two New York DJs. Stern recently announced he was leaving Viacom while the two DJs were sacked after their show featured a couple purporting to have sex in a church. After the church incident two years ago Viacom agreed to install audio delay equipment at its radio stations that broadcast live programming. It also agreed to train its broadcasters and employees about indecency laws. The agreement cancels investigations into about 50 radio and television shows, said Richard Diamond, FCC deputy secretary of communications. The shows were broadcast by Viacom-owned stations across the United States. Viacom has five days to pay the $3.5m fine, according to the agreement. The payment is not related to the FCC's $550,000 (£293,000) fine levied against Viacom after the exposure of singer Janet Jackson's breast during the CBS Super Bowl halftime show in January. Viacom is contesting that fine. It is not the first time that Viacom has paid out over indecency charges. Infinity Broadcasting, which is owned by Viacom, paid cumulative fines totalling $1.7m (£907,000) in 1995 to settle FCC violations by Stern.
The comedy Sideways has dominated this year's Independent Spirit Awards, winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated. It was named best film while Alexander Payne won best director and best screenplay, along with writing partner Jim Taylor. It also won acting awards for stars Paul Giamatti, Thomas Haden Church and Virginia Madsen. Sideways is tipped to do well at Sunday's Oscars, with five nominations. The awards, now in their 20th year, are given to films made outside the traditional studio system, and are traditionally held the day before the Oscars. Other winners included Catalina Sandino Moreno, who took best actress for her role as a drug smuggler in the Colombian drama Maria Full of Grace. Moreno is also nominated for best actress at the Oscars. The best first screenplay award went to Joshua Marston for Maria Full of Grace. Scrubs star Zach Braff won the award for best first feature for Garden State, which he wrote, directed and starred in. Oscar-nominated euthanasia film The Sea Inside from Spain won best foreign film, while Metallica: Some Kind Of Monster was awarded best documentary. Actor Rodrigo de la Serna took the best debut performance prize for The Motorcycle Diaries. The awards are voted for by the 9,000 members of the Independent Feature Project/Los Angeles, which includes actors, directors, writers and other industry professionals. Last year's big winner, Lost In Translation, went on to win the Oscar for best original screenplay, for writer-director Sofia Coppola.
Oscar-nominated animation Shark Tale has raked in $80m (£42.4m) in the first week of its US DVD release becoming the year's best-selling home video so far. The tally for its DVD and video sales soared past the film's opening week US box office takings of $56m (£29.7m). Shark Tale is now the sixth-highest earning DVD for first week sales. The all-time first-week record is held by 1995's Lion King followed by Shrek 2, Finding Nemo, the original Shrek, and Monster's Inc. Shark Tale, whose voice cast includes Will Smith, Robert De Niro, Renee Zellweger and Martin Scorsese, sold more than 6 million DVDs and videos across the United States and Canada. It becomes the highest first-week earner for February, outshining My Big Fat Greek Wedding which sold four million units in 2003. Films which are expected to earn strong home video returns are usually timed for release in the busiest retail season which falls before Christmas. The best-selling home video of last year was the Dreamworks hit Shrek 2, which took an estimated $458 m (£242.7m) in North America alone.
Orange Prize winner Andrea Levy has seen her book Small Island win the Whitbread Novel of the Year Award. She is now favourite to win the overall prize after beating Booker winner Alan Hollinghurst's The Line of Beauty. Geraldine McCaughrean has picked up the children's fiction award for the third time for Not the End of the World. All the category winners go through to compete for the Whitbread Book of the Year title, which carries with it a £25,000 prize. A panel of judges including Sir Trevor McDonald, actor Hugh Grant and writer Joanne Harris will meet up on 25 January to decide the overall winner, with the announcement being made later that evening. Bookmaker William Hill has placed London-based Levy's novel as the 6/4 favourite to win. Small Island, Levy's fourth novel, is set in post-war England and centres on a landlady and her lodgers. One is a Jamaican who joined British troops to fight Hitler but finds life difficult out of uniform when he settles in London. The judges, who included authors Jenny Colgan and Amanda Craig, were full of praise for her writing. "What could have been a didactic or preachy prospect turns out to hilarious, moving humane and eye-popping. It's hard to think of anybody not enjoying it," wrote the judges. The first novel section was won by Susan Fletcher for Eve Green, beating the favourite Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell by Susanna Clarke. Fletcher has recently graduated from graduated from the University of East
The BBC leads the nominations for the Bafta Interactive Awards, including one for the Radio Times website and one for Sport Interactive's Euro 2004 coverage. The awards, which were started in 1997, recognise the best websites, digital TV shows and CD roms. Other nominees include The Guardian news website, the National Theatre, MTV, the Science Museum and the London Stock Exchange. The winners from 12 different categories are crowned on 2 March 2005. There were nearly 400 entries this year - a third more than last year. The BBC has 16 nominations while The Guardian has three nominations. "This year's nominees are a testament to the creative and innovative work going on within the industry," said Grant Dean, chair of the interactive committee. Categories include interactive TV, film, digital TV, mobile phones and music. Shaun of the Dead, Oasis' Definitely Maybe, Really Bend It Like Beckham, The Chaplin Collection and The Day Today will battle it out in the DVD category. ITV's Great British Spelling Test takes on the BBC's Olympics and Spooks Interactive for the interactive TV award. And the Guardian takes three of a possible five nominations in the news and sport category for its website coverage of Euro 2004, the Tour de France and the US elections. The BBC's iCan site is up for the technical and social innovation award alongside the likes of Nottingham University's Uncle Roy All Around You. In 2002, the British Academy of Film and Television decided to split the awards into separate
Hollywood star Tom Hanks was in London's Leicester Square for the UK premiere of Polar Express. The West End landmark was turned into a festive landscape complete with snow and carol singers to celebrate the arrival of the animated film. "This is Leicester Square like you've never seen it before," said Hanks, who plays five roles in the movie. Polar Express is based on a children's book which tells the story of a young boy's journey to meet Santa Claus. The 48-year-old actor crossed a three-metre high bridge built in the square, which he said was "almost impossible to get across". Hundreds of fans greeted the star, all wearing Santa hats, and mince pies were on offer. Hanks said that the new film has an "elegant message". "Christmas is a special time of the year and you get out of it what you put into it," added the two-time Academy Award winner. "I believe in the spirit of Christmas and I think that's embodied in Santa Claus," he said. Polar Express uses technology similar to that used in Lord of the Rings to bring Gollum to life. The "performance capture" technique enables Hanks to play a number of roles, including the eight-year-old boy who is at the centre of the story, and Father Christmas. It is directed by Robert Zemeckis, who has previously worked with Hanks on Forrest Gump and Castaway.
New York electro-rock group The Bravery have come top of the BBC News website's Sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene's most promising new act. The Bravery, who have been compared to The Cure and New Order, were the most heavily-tipped act in the survey of 110 impartial critics and broadcasters. Rock band Keane won Sound of 2004 while US rapper 50 Cent topped Sound of 2003. Other new artists in this year's list include London indie group Bloc Party at second and UK rapper Kano third. The Bravery played their first gig in 2003 and have since supported bands including The Libertines, Interpol and Echo and the Bunnymen. They were the subject of a record company bidding war in 2004 and their debut single, Unconditional, caused a huge buzz when it was released in the UK in November. Singer Sam Endicott said he felt "great" about coming top of the Sound of 2005 list. "Anyone that says they don't want a zillion screaming fans is a jackass, a liar," he said. One of the experts to tip The Bravery was The Times' music critic Paul Connolly, who said they were "spiky but in love with pop". Chris Hawkins, host of BBC 6 Music's chart show, said the band had "great guitars and a mastery of the electro-clash sound". "The Bravery are proof alone that New York City is still home to hot new talent," he said. Nigel Harding, head of music at London rock radio station Xfm,
Martin Scorsese's The Aviator will win best film at the Oscars, according to the UK's leading movie critics. But several of those surveyed by the BBC News website think the veteran film-maker will lose the best director prize to Clint Eastwood. Most of the critics tipped Jamie Foxx and Hilary Swank to scoop best actor and actress for Ray and Million Dollar Baby respectively. The jury comprised experts and critics from the top UK film publications. The panel also revealed which nominees they would personally prefer to win. All expect The Aviator to win best film, but many think it will be a close race between Scorsese's Howard Hughes biopic and Eastwood's boxing drama Million Dollar Baby. The other films nominated are wine comedy Sideways, factual drama Finding Neverland, and Ray Charles biopic Ray. "I'm pretty sure this is the year of The Aviator, though my own choice would be Sideways," said the Observer's Philip French. "Sideways should win but it doesn't have a hope," said Jamie Graham of Total Film, a position shared by Film 2005 presenter Jonathan Ross. "The form going in to the Oscars points to The Aviator, but I liked Million Dollar Baby more," said Tim Dams, news editor of trade weekly Screen International. Five of the eight critics tipped Scorsese to win best director, with Mr Dams, Heat's Charles Gant and Empire's Angie Errigo plumping for Eastwood. Sideway's Alexander Payne, Ray's Taylor Hackford and British director Mike Leigh - nominated for period drama Vera Drake
The sixth and final Star Wars movie may not be suitable for young children, film-maker George Lucas has said. He told US TV show 60 Minutes that Revenge of the Sith would be the darkest and most violent of the series. "I don't think I would take a five or six-year-old to this," he told the CBS programme, to be aired on Sunday. Lucas predicted the film would get a US rating advising parents some scenes may be unsuitable for under-13s. It opens in the UK and US on 19 May. He said he expected the film would be classified PG-13 - roughly equivalent to a British 12A rating. The five previous Star Wars films have all carried less restrictive PG - parental guidance - ratings in the US. In the UK, they have all been passed U - suitable for all - with the exception of Attack of The Clones, which got a PG rating in 2002. Revenge of the Sith - the third prequel to the original 1977 Star Wars film - chronicles the transformation of the heroic Anakin Skywalker into the evil Darth Vader as he travels to a Hell-like planet composed of erupting volcanoes and molten lava. "We're going to watch him make a pact with the devil," Lucas said. "The film is much more dark, more emotional. It's much more of a tragedy."
Plans to portray Dominica's Carib Indians as cannibals in the sequel to hit film Pirates of the Caribbean have been criticised by the group's chief. Carib Chief Charles Williams said talks with Disney's producers revealed there was "a strong element of cannibalism in the script which cannot be removed". The Caribbean island's government said Disney planned to film in Dominica. The Caribs have long denied their ancestors practised cannibalism. Disney was unavailable for comment. "Our ancestors stood up against early European conquerors and because they stood up...we were labelled savages and cannibals up to today," said Mr Williams. "This cannot be perpetuated in movies." Shooting on the sequel is expected to begin in April, with hundreds of Dominicans applying to be extras in the movie. About 3,000 Caribs live on the island of Dominica, which has a population of 70,000. Many Caribs were killed by disease and war during colonisation up to the 1600s. Mr Williams said he had received support from indigenous groups around the world in his efforts to have cannibalism references removed from the film. But he admitted there were some members of the Carib council who did not support the campaign. He said some did not "understand our history, they are weak and are not committed to the cause of the Carib people". The first Pirates of the Caribbean film took $305m (£162m) at the box office in the US alone. The cast and crew are to work on two sequels back-to-back, with the first to
A bookmaker has stopped taking bets on Celebrity Big Brother after claiming "sensitive information" about the Channel 4 show had been leaked. William Hill made the move after four people tried to place bets on Friday's surprise double eviction. "This is highly unlikely to have been an inspired guess," William Hill spokesman Rupert Adams said. However, a Big Brother spokeswoman was "satisfied" that sensitive information about the show remained confidential. The bookmaker said its suspicions had been aroused by betting for the last two contestant evictions, when people were still trying to place large sums despite odds as short as 1/14. But William Hill's "overwhelming evidence" came on Friday when four unknown callers asked to place bets on the show's surprise double eviction. Shortly afterwards model Caprice and actor Jeremy Edwards left the show. Mr Adams believed someone had gained access to figures which revealed how viewers were voting, and was using them to predict which celebrity would be evicted next. "We think somebody somewhere has got them and has been trying very hard to take us to the cleaners," he said. The bets were not taken. Mr Adams did not believe anyone from Channel 4 or Big Brother producer Endemol had tried to place the queried bets. But he added: "They need to look at how many people are privy to the sensitive information." Big Brother's spokeswoman said: "Only a handful of senior production executives are privy to any sensitive information regarding eviction voting and there are strict procedures
Dame Alicia Markova, who has died in Bath aged 94, was the UK's first prima ballerina of the modern age, and, in her heyday, the greatest in the western world. She was born Lilian Alicia Marks in London in 1910. Her parents were comfortably off - her father, a mining engineer, drove a Rolls Royce. When she was eight, her mother took a decision which changed her life. Fearing that she had flat feet and weak legs, she arranged for her to have ballet lessons. Very quickly it became apparent that she was something special. She was spotted by the Russian artistic impresario, Sergei Diaghilev, who wanted her to dance for his company, Ballets Russes. She became ill with diphtheria but kept in touch, and, eventually, with a governess in tow, joined Diaghilev in Monte Carlo when she was 14. From here, she toured Europe, playing in all the top venues. It was Diaghilev who changed her name without even consulting her. Her life was one of great excitement. People such as Matisse and Stravinsky became like uncles to her, the latter put in charge of her musical education. Soon after Diaghilev's death in 1929, Alicia Markova returned to England and became Britain's first international ballerina. She helped launch the Ballet Club at the Mercury Theatre (later the Ballet Rambert), the Vic Wells Ballet, and then, with Anton Dolin, the Markova-Dolin Ballet of 1935-37. She also began working with young choreographers such as Anthony Tudor and Frederick Ashton who became
Rock star Ozzy Osbourne has been praised by police for "very courageously" tackling a burglar who stole jewellery from his house. The singer grabbed an intruder who then jumped 30ft (10m) from a first floor window as the star gave chase at his Buckinghamshire home on Monday. "I acted on impulse," Osbourne said. "In hindsight, it could have been a lot worse. It could've got really ugly." A £100,000 reward has been offered for information leading to a conviction. His wife Sharon, who called the police, said her wedding rings were taken from her bedside table as she slept. The heavy metal star said he could have met the same fate as late Beatle George Harrison, who was repeatedly stabbed in a break-in in 1999. "I could have been badly injured or shot or anything," Osbourne said. "I just thank God that no-one got injured." He added he was glad the intruders were not hurt. "I wouldn't want anyone to get injured." The singer did not want to talk in detail about his actions but when asked whether he would do the same again replied: "Is the Pope a Catholic?" The incident happened at 0400 GMT on Monday in Chalfont St Peter. Detective Inspector Paul Miller of Thames Valley Police said it appeared a man used a ladder to get into the house through a first floor bedroom window. "Whilst selecting items of jewellery, the burglar was disturbed by Ozzy who very courageously tackled this burglar and pursued him from
Hollywood blockbuster The Aviator and low-budget British movie Vera Drake have shared the main honours at the 2005 Bafta film awards. The Aviator was declared best film, and its star Cate Blanchett won best supporting actress. But Vera Drake scored best director for Mike Leigh while Imelda Staunton took the hotly contested best actress award. Jamie Foxx won best actor for Ray, while British actor Clive Owen took best supporting actor for Closer. The two actors have repeated their success at the Golden Globes in January. But big British hope Kate Winslet walked away empty-handed on Saturday despite two nominations for best actress. Celebrating his win, the Oscar-nominated Owen told reporters: "The whole award season is new to me because I haven't won anything before. All of that is a bit overwhelming." Blanchett, who won a Bafta in 1999 for her leading role in Elizabeth, said: "Winning a Bafta means an enormous amount to me." She thanked the woman she played, Katharine Hepburn, for paving the way for women to work in film. "Thank you very much, I'm sure you're pleased, although you're not able to see this," she said. The Aviator took four awards in all, also collecting best make-up and hair and production design, while Vera Drake also scooped best costume design. Staunton, who is up for an Oscar for her role in Vera Drake, arrived wearing a green silk and chiffon beaded evening dress. "Thank you very much. I'm so thrilled and so grateful and I'm delighted
England captain Jason Robinson will miss the rest of the Six Nations because of injury. Robinson, stand-in captain in the absence of Jonny Wilkinson, had been due to lead England in their final two games against Italy and Scotland. But the Sale full-back pulled out of the squad on Wednesday because of a torn ligament in his right thumb. The 30-year-old will undergo an operation on Friday but England have yet to name a replacement skipper. Robinson said: "This is very disappointing for me as this means I miss England's last two games in the Six Nations at Twickenham and two games for my club, Sale Sharks. "But I'm looking to be back playing very early in April." Robinson picked up the injury in the 19-13 defeat to Ireland at Lansdowne Road on Saturday. And coach Andy Robinson said: "I am hugely disappointed for Jason. "As England captain he has been an immense figure during the autumn internationals and the Six Nations, leading by example at all times. I look forward to having him back in the England squad." The announcement is the latest setback for Robinson's injury-depleted squad. Among the key figures already missing are Jonny Wilkinson, Mike Tindall, Will Greenwood, Julian White and Phil Vickery - a list which leaves Robinson short on candidates for the now vacant captaincy role. Former England skipper Jeremy Guscott told BBC Radio Five Live his choice would be Matt Dawson, even though he is does not hold a regular starting place. "The
Bath have signed their former scrum-half Andy Williams on a short-term deal from the Neath-Swansea Ospreys. Wales international Williams, whose contract with the Welsh region was due to expire in June, has agreed a contract until the end of the season. With Martyn Wood's injury likely to keep him out until February, Bath need experienced back-up to Nick Walshe. Said Williams: "When this opportunity presented itself, I did not really have to think twice about it." Williams, capped by Wales against Romania in 2003, should figure in the match squad for Monday's Zurich Premiership match at Sale Sharks. He lost his Ospreys starting place to New Zealander Jason Spice and has fallen further behind in the pecking order. The Welsh region has two outstanding young No 9 prospects in Richie Rees and Rhodri Wells. Bath director of rugby Jack Rowell, though, believes Williams fits the bill perfectly. "He has been playing regular Heineken Cup and Celtic League rugby and he has a great affection for Bath," Rowell told Bath's official website. "We are delighted to be able to welcome him back to the club."
The BBC should steer away from "demonising" ex-Downing Street media chief Alastair Campbell, Peter Mandelson has said. The European commissioner and former Labour minister was speaking amid claims that Mr Campbell is part of a Labour "dirty tricks" campaign. That charge was denied by Mr Mandelson, who said the Tories were afraid of Mr Campbell's campaigning skills. He warned the BBC that attacking Mr Campbell had brought it trouble before. That was a reference to the Hutton inquiry following a BBC story claiming Downing Street "sexed up" Iraq's weapons of mass destruction dossier. The affair prompted the resignation of BBC chairman Gavyn Davies, director-general Greg Dyke and reporter Andrew Gilligan. Labour has attracted media criticism for using new freedom of information laws to dig up information about Tory leader Michael Howard's past. Mr Mandelson, a former Labour communications director, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I understand why the Tories will be gunning for Alastair Campbell because they fear his campaigning skills. "What I understand less is why the BBC should be joining with the Tories in driving that agenda. "In my experience of these things, parties which shout about dirty tricks and the like tend to do so because they fear a direct hit in some vulnerable part of their political anatomy. "I suggest the BBC concentrates on the issues and helps the public to understand the policies and the choices that are at stake in the election rather than engages in the process politics, the trivialisation of the
The guitarist with US rock band Korn has quit the music business, saying he made the decision after experiencing a religious awakening. Brian 'Head' Welch told a radio station in California that his bandmates respected his decision to leave. A replacement guitarist has yet to be named by Korn, who are currently at work on their eighth studio album. Welch added that he would appear at a church in Bakersfield to explain how he "got to this place in life". The remaining members of Korn, who are known for their hardcore brand of rock, said they hoped Welch "finds the happiness he is looking for". The 34-year-old made reference to the band's aggressive brand of music and its young fans in his parting statement. "Anger is a good thing, and if kids want to listen to Korn, good, but there's happiness after the anger," he told his local radio station in Bakersfield. "I'm going to show it through my actions, how much I love my fans," added Welch. Korn have enjoyed a moderate degree of chart success in the UK, with 10 singles breaking into the Top 40. Their best performance to date in the UK has been 2002's Here To Stay, which reached number 12, while their album Untouchables, released in the same year, made it to number four.
Mike Ruddock paid tribute to his Wales side after they came from 15-6 down to beat France 24-18 in the Six Nations. "After going two tries down in 12 minutes we had to show character," said the national team coach. "I didn't have to tell them anything at half-time because those players have stared down the barrel of a gun before. "They decided they didn't want to do that again and came out fighting. It was a great team effort and we showed great character to come back." Man-of-the-match Stephen Jones, who kicked three penalties, a drop goal and conversion, was ecstatic following after the win at Stade de France. "It's just a special moment. Two years ago we didn't win a single game in the Six Nations. But we're a very happy camp now," he said. "We worked hard as a squad and I'm a proud Welshman. We've got hard matches to come, so we're just happy with the start." Double try scorer Martyn Williams was keen not to talk about a possible Grand Slam for Wales. "We've got more self-belief these days. Two or three years ago we might have collapsed after going behind so early. "There's no mention of a Grand Slam among the players. We've got a tough game against Scotland at Murrayfield. They could bring us crashing down to earth."
MPs will be thrown out of the Commons if they use Blackberries in the chamber Speaker Michael Martin has ruled. The £200 handheld computers can be used as a phone, pager or to send e-mails. The devices gained new prominence this week after Alastair Campbell used his to accidentally send an expletive-laden message to a Newsnight journalist. Mr Martin revealed some MPs had been using their Blackberries during debates and he also cautioned members against using hidden earpieces. The use of electronic devices in the Commons chamber has long been frowned on. The sound of a mobile phone or a pager can result in a strong rebuke from either the Speaker or his deputies. The Speaker chairs debates in the Commons and is charged with ensuring order in the chamber and enforcing rules and conventions of the House. He or she is always an MP chosen by colleagues who, once nominated, gives up all party political allegiances.
Top seeds South Africa return to the scene of one of their most embarrassing failures when they face the Seychelles in the Cosafa Cup next month. Last year Bafana Bafana were humbled in the first by minnows Mauritius who beat them 2-0 in Curepipe. Coach Stuart Baxter and his squad will return to Curepipe face the Seychelles in their first game of the new-look regional competition. The format of the event has been changed this year after the entry of the Seychelles, who have taken the number of participants to 13. The teams are now divided into three group of four and play knock-out matches on successive days to determine the group champions. Mauritius host the first group, and their opponents are Madagascar, the Seychelles and South Africa. Bafana Bafana play the Seychelles before Mauritius take on Madagascar in a double-header on 26 February. The two winners return to the New George V stadium the next day and the victor of the group decider advances to August's final mini-tournament. The second group will be hosted in Namibia in April. It comprises Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique and the hosts. In June, former champions Zambia will host Lesotho, Malawi and Swaziland in the third group in Lusaka. The three group winners will then join title holders Angola for the last of the mini-tournaments in August, where the winners will be crowned. Seychelles v South Africa Mauritius v Madagascar Winners meet in final match Mozambique v Zimbabwe Namibia v Botswana Winners meet in final
The fixed line phone in your home could soon be an endangered species. Research by handset maker Nokia shows that more and more people are using their mobile phone for every call they make or take. According to the study, more than 45 million people in the UK, Germany, US and South Korea now only use a mobile. It showed that people keep their fixed line phone because call charges are lower, but most of those questioned said the future was definitely mobile. The Nokia-sponsored research showed that mobiles and fixed phones were used for different purposes. Home phones were used for longer calls but conversations on mobiles tended to be shorter, between mobiles and to friends. In the UK 69% of those questioned said they turned to their fixed phone because it was still cheaper to use than a mobile. However, when pressed few could say with accuracy how tariffs on fixed and mobile phones compared. In the US and Germany many of those interviewed said they used the fixed phone because it was more reliable than a mobile handset and let them get access to the net at relatively high speeds. In all the countries where interviews were carried out, older people were more likely to use a fixed line phone more than a mobile. Women aged 50 or above almost never use a mobile phone, the research found. The move to mobile was most pronounced in South Korea where 65% of those questioned said they already make
Singers Jennifer Lopez and husband Marc Anthony, a Latin pop star, are to perform a duet at this month's Grammy Awards in Los Angeles. Anthony became Lopez's third husband in June 2004. He won a Grammy in 1998 and is nominated for two more this year. The 13 February ceremony will also include a rendition of The Beatles' Across The Universe by Bono, Stevie Wonder, Norah Jones and Brian Wilson. The song will go on sale online to raise money for the tsunami aid effort. The awards show will also feature performances from U2, Green Day, Alicia Keys and Kanye West - but the Lopez and Anthony duet is likely to be one of the biggest talking points. Anthony, born in New York to a Puerto Rican family, is reported to be the biggest-selling salsa artist of all time. He is nominated this year for best Latin pop album and best salsa/merengue album. The tsunami tribute song will also feature Alicia Keys, Velvet Revolver and Tim McGraw. Fans will be able to download it for $0.99 (£0.53) from iTunes, or purchase the video from the CBS TV network's site. Kanye West, the rapper who leads the awards with 10 nominations, will perform alongside John Legend, Mavis Staples and the Blind Boys of Alabama. There will also be a tribute to Ray Charles featuring Bonnie Raitt and Billy Preston and a celebration of southern rock with Tim McGraw, Gretchen Wilson, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Dickie Betts and Elvis Bishop. Ray Charles, who died
Internet search engine users are an odd mix of naive and sophisticated, suggests a report into search habits. The report by the US Pew Research Center reveals that 87% of searchers usually find what they were looking for when using a search engine. It also shows that few can spot the difference between paid-for results and organic ones. The report reveals that 84% of net users say they regularly use Google, Ask Jeeves, MSN and Yahoo when online. Almost 50% of those questioned said they would trust search engines much less, if they knew information about who paid for results was being hidden. According to figures gathered by the Pew researchers the average users spends about 43 minutes per month carrying out 34 separate searches and looks at 1.9 webpages for each hunt. A significant chunk of net users, 36%, carry out a search at least weekly and 29% of those asked only look every few weeks. For 44% of those questioned, the information they are looking for is critical to what they are doing and is information they simply have to find. Search engine users also tend to be very loyal and once they have found a site they feel they can trust tend to stick with it. According to Pew Research 44% of searchers use just a single search engine, 48% use two or three and a small number, 7%, consult more than three sites. Tony Macklin, spokesman for Ask Jeeves, said the results reflected its own research
The European Commission has officially launched an in-depth investigation into whether Italian airline Alitalia is receiving illegal state aid. Commission officials are to look at Rome's provision of a 400m euro ($495m; £275m) loan to the carrier. Both the Italian government and Alitalia have repeatedly denied that the money - part of a vital restructuring plan - is state aid. The investigation could take up to 18 months. However, Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot said he wanted it to be carried out as swiftly as possible. "The Italian authorities have presented a serious industrial plan," said Mr Barot. "We now have to verify certain aspects to confirm that this plan contains no state aid. I would like our analysis to be completed swiftly." The matter of possible state aid was brought to the Commission's attention by eight of Alitalia's rivals, including Germany's Lufthansa, British Airways and Spain's Iberia. While Alitalia needs to restructure to bring itself back to profitability, the rival carriers say it has both violated state aid rules and threatened competition. Alitalia lost 330m euros in 2003 as it struggled to get to grips with high costs, spiralling oil prices, competition from budget carriers and reduced demand. It plans to split into AZ Fly and AZ Services, which will handle air and ground services respectively. Alitalia already enjoyed state aid in 1997. EU rules prevent that from happening again in what is known as the "one time, last time" rule for airlines. Otherwise, EU regulations on state aid stipulate
Shares in Manchester United were up over 5% by noon on Monday following a new offer from Malcolm Glazer. The board of Man Utd is expected to meet early this week to discuss the latest proposal from the US tycoon that values the club at £800m ($1.5bn). Manchester United revealed on Sunday that it had received a detailed proposal from Mr Glazer. A senior source at the club told the BBC: "This time it's different". The board is obliged to consider this deal. But the Man Utd supporters club urged the club to reject the new deal. Manchester United past and present footballers Eric Cantona and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, and club manager Sir Alex Ferguson, have lent their backing to the supporters' group, Shareholders United. They have all spoken out against the bid. A spokesman for the supporters club said: "I can't see any difference (compared to Mr Glazer's previous proposals) other than £200m less debt. "He isn't bringing any money into the club; he'll use our money to buy it." Mr Glazer's latest move is being led by Mr Glazer's two sons, Avi and Joel, according to the Financial Times. A proposal was received by David Gill, United's chief executive, at the end of last week, pitched at about 300p a share. David Cummings, head of UK equities for Standard Life Investments, said he believed a "well funded" 300p a share bid would be enough for Mr Glazer to take control of the club. "I do not think there
Labour has been accused of using anti-Semitic images in posters which critics claim depict Tory leader Michael Howard as Fagin. The poster shows Mr Howard hypnotising people with a pocket watch, saying: "I can spend the same money twice." The image prompted concern from the editor of the Jewish Chronicle but Labour insists it is simply anti-Tory. Labour later took the image off its website, saying an alternative idea had proved more popular with party members. The party will now use focus groups to test a poster showing Mr Howard and shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin with a blackboard reading: "2+2=5". The hypnotism poster has been compared to the portrayal of the Dickens character Fagin in the stage version of the musical Oliver! There was controversy over another poster choice offered to Labour members. It showed Mr Howard and Mr Letwin - who are both Jewish - as flying pigs. Mr Howard did not comment on the anti-Semitism claims when asked about the poster on Monday. Instead, he pointed to how Tony Blair had in 1997 complained about "personalised abusive campaigning". Mr Howard told Greater Manchester Radio: "It is such a pity that Mr Blair doesn't practise what he preaches." Jewish Chronicle editor Ned Temko said there had been a mixed reaction to the first poster but e-mails from Jewish Chronicle readers showed deeper concern about the hypnotism image. "Shylock and Fagin are inextricably linked to notions of centuries-old prejudice," he told BBC Radio 4's World At One. "Whatever the idea
Shares in UK banking group Barclays have risen on Monday following a weekend press report that it had held merger talks with US bank Wells Fargo. A tie-up between Barclays and California-based Wells Fargo would create the world's fourth biggest bank, valued at $180bn (£96bn). Barclays has declined to comment on the report in the Sunday Express, saying it does not respond to market speculation. The two banks reportedly held talks in October and November 2004. Barclays shares were up 8 pence, or 1.3%, at 605 pence by late morning in London on Monday, making it the second biggest gainer in the FTSE 100 index. UK banking icon Barclays was founded more than 300 years ago; it has operations in over 60 countries and employs 76,200 staff worldwide. Its North American divisions focus on business banking, whereas Wells Fargo operates retail and business banking services from 6,000 branches. In 2003, Barclays reported a 20% rise in pre-tax profits to £3.8bn, and it has recently forecast similar gains in 2004, predicting that full year pre-tax profits would rise 18% to £4.5bn. Wells Fargo had net income of $6.2bn in its last financial year, a 9% increase on the previous year, and revenues of $28.4bn. Barclays was the focus of takeover speculation in August, when it was linked to Citigroup, though no bid has ever materialised. Stock market traders were sceptical that the latest reports heralded a deal. "The chief executive would be abandoning his duty if he didn't talk to rivals,
British Airways is to halt its flights from London Heathrow to Jeddah and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia from 27 March. The airline said the decision was a commercial one due to reduced passenger demand for the services. BA currently operates four flights per week from Heathrow to Jeddah, and three weekly journeys to Riyadh. It suspended flights to Saudi Arabia for three weeks in autumn 2003 after a government warning about a "threat to UK aviation interests in Saudi Arabia". BA will now suspend the Saudi flights - which it says will remain "under constant review" - from 27 March. "The decision to suspend flights between the UK and Saudi Arabia is a difficult one to make as we have enjoyed a long history of flying between the two countries," said BA director of commercial planning, Robert Boyle. "However, the routes don't currently make a profitable contribution to our business and we are unable to sustain them while this remains the case." Passengers with flights booked after the suspension date will be contacted by BA for alternative arrangements to be made.
Former Olympic champion Michael Johnson has accused Britain's top sprinters of lacking pride and ambition. "At the moment, the biggest factor on the mind of British sprinters is to be number one in Britain," the world 200m and 400m record holder told Five Live. "Athletics at the moment is all about international competitions and they need to show a little more pride." However, Linford Christie countered: "It's easy to criticise when you haven't gone through the system here." Johnson was involved in a verbal spat with Britain's Darren Campbell earlier this year. The American had cast doubt on Campbell's claims he had torn a hamstring in the wake of his failure to reach the Olympic 100m and 200m finals. And the American remains highly critical of aspects of British sprinting. "The only time you see British sprinters getting upset or riled is when there is a debate as to which one is better than the other," he claimed. "Athletes here have to compete more outside the UK. Their focus has to be on being the best in the world and not just on being the top British sprinter." Speaking at an elite coaches' conference in Birmingham, Johnson also argued that although there has been more investment in the sport in Britain, it had not necessarily reaped the rewards. "You can't fix everything with money," he admitted. "You contrast the situation here to that of some US athletes who have no funding. "Those who aren't funded might be hungrier and more
BT is offering customers free internet telephone calls if they sign up to broadband in December. The Christmas give-away entitles customers to free telephone calls anywhere in the UK via the internet. Users will need to use BT's internet telephony software, known as BT Communicator, and have a microphone and speakers or headset on their PC. BT has launched the promotion to show off the potential of a broadband connection to customers. People wanting to take advantage of the offer will need to be a BT Together fixed-line customer and will have to sign up to broadband online. The offer will be limited to the first 50,000 people who sign up and there are limitations - the free calls do not include calls to mobiles, non-geographical numbers such as 0870, premium numbers or international numbers. BT is keen to provide extra services to its broadband customers. "People already using BT Communicator have found it by far the most convenient way of making a call if they are at their PC," said Andrew Burke, director of value-added services at BT Retail. As more homes get high-speed access, providers are increasingly offering add-ons such as cheap net calls. "Broadband and telephony are attractive to customers and BT wants to make sure it is in the first wave of services," said Ian Fogg, an analyst with Jupiter Research. "BT Communicator had a quiet launch in the summer and now BT is waving the flag a bit more for it," he added. BT has
Millions of the world's poorest textile trade workers will lose their jobs under new trade rules to be introduced in the new year, a charity has warned. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is to end its Multi-Fibre Agreement (MFA) on midnight of 31 December. Christian Aid condemned the move, saying it would see almost a million jobs in Bangladesh alone being axed. However, supporters of the change claim it will mean increased efficiency and lower costs for Western consumers. It will also see more jobs created in India and China, advocates argue. The WTO said that many developing countries support the end of quotas and stressed that funding was available to countries such as Bangladesh to help them make the transition to a fully liberalised market. "There will be a period of adjustment required," said WTO spokesman Keith Rockwell. "Some countries will do better than others but there is no one who is suggesting that no developing country will do well out of this. "Some countries where it may appear that orders will dry up have seen orders surging and there are many companies who will continue with existing trading relationships." Christian Aid has called on British firms not to simply "cut and run" but look after their workers, in a new report called Rags To Riches To Rags. It added that with few employment alternatives available many sacked garment workers could end up in far worse jobs - with some of the mainly female workers forced into the sex
EuroDisney, the European home of Mickey Mouse and friends, has said it will sell 253m euros (£175m; $328m) of new shares as it looks to avoid insolvency. The sale is the last part of a plan to restructure 2.4bn euros-worth of debts. Despite struggling since it was opened in 1992, EuroDisney has recently made progress in turning its business around and ticket sales have picked up. However, analysts still question whether it attracts enough visitors to stay open, even with the restructuring. EuroDisney remains Europe's largest single tourist attraction, attracting some 12.4 million visitors annually. A new attraction - Walt Disney Studios - has recently opened its site near Paris. The company's currently traded stock tumbled in Paris on the latest news, shedding 15% to 22 euro cents. EuroDisney will sell the new shares priced at 9 euros cents each. The US Disney Corporation and Saudi Arabian prince Al-Walid bin Talal, the firm's two main shareholders, will buy the new stock. The restructuring deal is the second in the firm's troubled financial history; its finances were first reorganised in 1994.
Kelly Holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in Britain. Holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double Olympic gold in January's Norwich Union International in Glasgow. She will also run in the Grand Prix in Birmingham in February and may defend her indoor AAA 800m title in Sheffield earlier that month. "I am still competitive and still want to win," she said. "I'm an athlete and I can't wait to get back on the track." She added: "These events are also a great opportunity to thank the British public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment I stepped off that plane from Greece." The Glasgow meeting will see Holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against Sweden, France, Russia and Italy.
A group of MPs are on a two-day fact-finding mission to Scotland to gather evidence for a report into the UK's fishing industry. Members of Westminster's environment, food and rural affairs committee will be touring fish markets and talking to fish processors. They will also talk to Fisheries Minister Ross Finnie and scientists. MPs are deciding whether to recommend a new system of "community quotas" to conserve fish stocks. The aim is that fishing ports like Peterhead or Fraserburgh would be allocated a quota and local people would decide how to fish it. The scheme is a variation on the local management committees already being established by the European Union. Details are contained in a Royal Commission report for the UK Government, along with the more controversial idea of closing some mixed fishing grounds completely. Six members of the committee will be in Scotland to seek views from fishermen and processors in Aberdeen and Peterhead. They will also speak to Mr Finnie, representatives of the Royal Society and the Sea Fish Industry Authority. Committee chairman Austin Mitchell said some way has to be found of harvesting mixed fisheries without wasting stocks.
Paula Radcliffe made a triumphant return to competitive running with victory in the New York Marathon. The Briton, running for the first time since dropping out of the Olympic marathon and 10,000m, held off Kenyan Susan Chepkemei in a thrilling finish. The pair were locked together for the last few miles before Radcliffe finally sprinted clear to win in two hours, 23 minutes and 10 seconds. "It's a good way to end the year," she said. "I'm ready for a good rest now." Radcliffe decided only recently to run in the race and many had doubted whether she had sufficiently recovered from her Olympic ordeal just 11 weeks ago. But the world record-holder was prominent at the head of the field for the whole race as her rivals slowly dropped off the pace. Just Chepkemei and Radcliffe were left in contention as the race came into the final few miles. The Kenyan put in several bursts of speed to throw off Radcliffe but the Briton managed to hang in. Both runners looked to be suffering as they reached the final mile in Central Park. But it was Radcliffe who managed to dredge up a final sprint to see off Chepkemei in the closest finish in the race's history and in the process make a huge step in erasing the disappointment she suffered in Athens.
Windows users could soon be paying Microsoft to keep PCs free of spyware. Following the takeover of anti-spyware firm Giant, Microsoft said it would soon release a toolkit that strips machines of the irritating programs. Although initially free, Microsoft has not ruled out charging people who want to keep this toolkit up to date. Surveys show that almost every Windows PC is infested with spyware programs that do everything from bombard users with adverts to steal login data. Microsoft said that a beta version of the toolkit to clean up Windows machines should be available within 30 days. Designed for PCs running Windows 2000 and XP, the utility will clean out spyware programs, constantly monitor what happens on a PC and will be regularly updated to catch the latest variants. Before now many of Microsoft's other security boosting programs, such as the firewall in Windows XP, have been given away free. But Mike Nash, vice president in Microsoft's security business unit, said it was still working out pricing and licensing issues. Charging for future versions has not been discounted, he said. "We'll come up with a plan and roll that out," he said. The plan could turn out to be a lucrative one for Microsoft. A recent survey by Earthlink and Webroot found that 90% of PCs are infested with the surreptitious software and that, on average, each one is harbouring 28 separate spyware programs. Currently users wanting protection from spyware have turned to free programs such as Spybot and
Steve McClaren wants his Middlesbrough team to win their Uefa Cup group by beating Partizan Belgrade. Boro have already qualified for the knockout stages alongside Partizan and Villareal, at the expense of Lazio. But boss McClaren is looking for a victory which would mean they avoid a team that has played in the Champions League in Friday's third-round draw. "To need a win to finish top is fantastic, but it is going to be a tough one," McClaren said. "When the draw was made, I thought it was the toughest group of them all - and so it has proved. "Lazio were favourites, Villarreal have been semi-finalists, and Partizan have fantastic experience in Europe. "The pleasing thing is we did the business in the first two games. "Winning those two has put us in a great position and it has been a fantastic experience playing these teams."
Shell is to pay $1m (£522,000) to the ex-finance chief who stepped down from her post in April 2004 after the firm over-stated its reserves. Judy Boynton finally left the firm on 31 December, having spent the intervening time as a special advisor to chief executive Jeroen van der Veer. In January 2004, Shell told shocked investors that its reserves were 20% smaller than previously thought. Shell said the pay-off was in line with Ms Boynton's contract. She was leaving "by mutual agreement to pursue other career opportunities", the firm said in a statement. The severance package means she keeps long-term share options, but fails to collect on a 2003 incentive plan since the firm has failed to meet the targets included in it. The revelation that Shell had inflated its reserves led to the resignation of its chairman, Sir Phil Watts, and production chief Walter van der Vijver. An investigation commissioned by Shell found that Ms Boynton had to share responsibility for the company's behaviour. Despite receiving an email from Mr Van de Vijver which said the firm had "fooled" the market about its reserves, the investigation said, she did nothing to inquire further. In all, Shell restated its reserves four times during 2003. In September, it paid £82.7m in fines to regulators on both sides of the Atlantic for violating market rules in its reporting of its reserves.
The proportion of surfers using Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) has dropped to below 90%, say web analysts. Net traffic monitor, OneStat.com, has reported that the open-source browser Firefox 1.0, released on 9 November, seems to be drawing users away from IE. While IE's market share has dropped 5% since May to 88.9%, Mozilla browsers - including Firefox - have grown by 5%. Firefox is made by the Mozilla Foundation which was set up by former browser maker Netscape in 1998. Although there have been other preview versions of Firefox, version 1.0 was the first complete official program. "It seems that people are switching from Microsoft's Internet Explorer to Mozilla's new Firefox browser," said Niels Brinkman, co-founder of Amsterdam-based OneStat.com. Mozilla browsers - including Firefox 1.0 - now have 7.4% of the market share, the figures suggest. Mozilla said that more than five million have downloaded the free software since its official release. Supporters of the open-source software in the US managed to raise $250,000 (£133,000) to advertise the release of Firefox 1.0 in The New York Times, and support the Mozilla Foundation. There was a flurry of downloads on its first day of release. The figures echo similar research from net analyst WebSideStory which suggested that IE had 92.9% of users in October compared to 95.5% in June. Microsoft IE has dominated the browser market for some time after taking the crown from Netscape, and its share of users has always stayed at around the 95% mark. Firefox is attractive
China's economy has expanded by a breakneck 9.5% during 2004, faster than predicted and well above 2003's 9.1%. The news may mean more limits on investment and lending as Beijing tries to take the economy off the boil. China has sucked in raw materials and energy to feed its expansion, which could have knock-on effects on the rest of the world if it overheats. But officials pointed out that industrial growth had slowed, with services providing much of the impetus. Growth in industrial output - the main target of government efforts to impose curbs on credit and investments - was 11.5% in 2004, down from 17% the previous year. Still, consumer prices - at 2.4% - rose faster than in 2004, adding to concern that a sharp rise in producer prices of 7.1% could stoke inflation. And overall investment in fixed assets was still high, up 21.3% from the previous year - although some way off the peak of 43% seen in the first quarter of 2004. The result could be higher interest rates. China raised rates by 0.27 percentage points to 5.8% - its first hike in nine years - in October 2004. Despite the apparent rebalancing of the economy the overall growth picture remains strong, economists said. "There is no sign of a slowdown in 2005," said Tim Congdon, economist at ING Barings. China's economy is not only gathering speed thanks to domestic demand, but also from soaring sales overseas. Figures released earlier this year showed exports at
A strike on the Buenos Aires underground has caused traffic chaos and large queues at bus stops in the Argentine capital. Tube workers walked out last week demanding a 53% pay rise and in protest against the installation of automatic ticket machines. Metrovias, the private firm which runs the five tube lines in the city, has offered an 8% increase in wages. The firm promised no jobs would be lost as a result of new ticket machines. It said it would put this commitment on paper. Underground staff have warned they will continue with the protests until the management put an acceptable offer on the table. The Argentine Work Ministry has been mediating in the conflict and it could call an "obligatory conciliation", which would force both sides to find a solution and put an end to the conflict. Some tube commuters have not hidden their frustration at the ongoing strike and have broken the windows of the underground trains, according to the local press. "We are taken as hostages. I don't know who is right, but the harm ones are us," said accountant Jose Lopez.
Jamie Foxx and Hilary Swank have won the Screen Actors Guild Awards for best male and female film actors, boosting their Oscars hopes this month. Foxx's portrayal of late soul-singer Ray Charles in Ray had already earned him a prestigious Golden Globe award. Swank triumphed for playing a gutsy female boxer in Million Dollar Baby. Modest wine country comedy Sideways knocked out favourites Million Dollar Baby and The Aviator by taking the top prize for best cast performance. The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) represents US film and TV actors. Its winners often go on to win Oscars. In other nominations, Cate Blanchett triumphed as the best supporting actress for her role as Katharine Hepburn in The Aviator. Veteran actor Morgan Freeman took the best supporting actor award for playing a prize-fighter turned gym manager in Million Dollar Baby. "Thank you for Ray Charles for just living so complex and so interesting, and making us all just come together," said Foxx, accepting his award in Los Angeles on Saturday. He also praised the film director: "Thank you for Taylor Hackford for taking a chance with an African-American film. Taylor, you're my director of the year." Swank, too, was full of praise for her director and co-star Clint Eastwood. "I bow down to you," Swank said to the 74-year-old Eastwood. "You are a talent beyond compare. If I'm half the person you are and half the talent you are when I'm 74, I will know that I've accomplished something great." Both Foxx
Jef Raskin, head of the team behind the first Macintosh computer, has died. Mr Raskin was one of the first employees at Apple and made many of the design decisions that made the Mac so distinctive when it was first released. He led the team that decided to use a graphical interface and mouse that let people navigate around the computer by pointing and clicking. The 1984 release of the Mac reflected Mr Raskin's belief that good design should make computers easy to use. Mr Raskin joined Apple in 1978 as employee number 31, initially to lead the company's publications department. However, in 1979 he was put in charge of a small team to design a computer that lived up to his idea of a machine that was cheap, aimed at consumers rather than computer professionals and was very easy to use. The result was the 1984 Macintosh that did away with the then common text-based interface in favour of one based around graphics that resembled a virtual desktop and used folders and documents. Users navigated around the machine using a mouse and by pointing, clicking and dragging. Although now in common use in almost all computers, these methods were pioneering when first used in the Macintosh. The GUI was developed by Xerox PARC, and used in its Star machine. But the acceptance of the interface did not truly begin until the concept was developed for use by Apple in its pioneering Lisa computer. "His role on the Macintosh was
A US company has pulled out of a major contract to rebuild Iraq's transport system after attacks on reconstruction efforts, Pentagon officials have said. Contrack International, of Arlington, Virginia, heads a coalition of firms working on a series of schemes. Its withdrawal from the $325m (£170m) contract in November is thought to be the largest cancellation to date. Contrack said "the original scope of work that was envisioned could not be executed in a cost-effective manner". But the firm denied reports it was withdrawing completely from Iraq. "Members of the joint venture including Contrack are committed to the ongoing reconstruction efforts, are actively working in Iraq and continue to look for new construction opportunities in the country," it said in a statement. The Pentagon's Project and Contract Office (PCO) in Baghdad said it had taken over Contrack's management of the subcontractors working on the transportation projects. US firms and their workers have been targets of attacks, and security concerns are said to be a major reason for the slow pace of reconstruction in Iraq. Of the $18.4bn in reconstruction funds approved by Congress, less than $2bn has been spent. Lt Col Eric Schnaible of the PCO told the Associated Press news agency Contrack's withdrawal from the transportation contract was a "mutually agreed-to separation" and did not indicate a movement by US companies to leave Iraq. "Some parts of the country are a whole lot more permissive than others," he added. "Where we can get the work done, good things are
Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final World Cup qualifier. Ireland will close their bid to reach the 2006 finals by playing Switzerland in Dublin on 12 October 2005. The Republic met the Swiss in their final Euro 2004 qualifier, losing 2-0 away and missing out on a place in the finals in Portugal. The Group Four fixtures were hammered out at a meeting in Dublin on Tuesday. The Irish open their campaign on 4 September at home to Cyprus and wrap up the 10-match series on 12 October 2005, with the visit of Switzerland. Manager Brian Kerr and FAI officials met representatives from Switzerland, France, Cyprus, Israel and the Faroe Islands to arrange the fixture schedule. Kerr had hoped to finish with a clash against France, but got the reigning European champions as their penultimate home match on 7 September 2005. The manager got his wish to avoid a repeat of finishing their bid to qualify with too many away matches. Republic of Ireland v Cyprus; France v Israel; Switzerland v Faroe Islands. Switzerland v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Cyprus; Faroe Islands v France. France v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Switzerland; Cyprus v Faroe Islands. Republic of Ireland v Faroe Islands; Cyprus v France. Cyprus v Israel. France v Switzerland; Israel v Republic of Ireland. Switzerland v Cyprus; Israel v France. Republic of Ireland v Israel; Faroe Islands v Switzerland. Faroe Islands v Republic of Ireland.
Ultra high speed wi-fi connections moved closer to reality on Thursday when Intel said it would list standards for the technology later this year. Intel is developing ultra-wideband technology (UWB) which would allow fast data transfer but with low power needs. UWB is tipped to be used for wireless transfer of video in the home or office and for use in wireless USB devices which need low power consumption. A rival UWB standard is being developed by Motorola and chip firm Freescale. At the mobile phone conference 3GSM in Cannes last month Samsung demonstrated a phone using UWB technology from Freescale. At a press conference on Thursday Intel announced that two UWB groups, WiMedia Alliance and Multi-band OFDM alliance had merged to support the technology. UWB makes it possible to stream huge amounts of data through the air over short distances. One of the more likely uses of UWB is to make it possible to send DVD quality video images wirelessly to TV screens or to let people beam music to media players around their home. The technology has the potential to transmit hundreds of megabits of data per second. "Consumer electronics companies want UWB to replace cables and simplify set-up," Jeff Ravencraft, technology strategist at Intel and chairman of the Wireless USB Promoter Group, told technology site ZDNet. "Thirty percent of consumer electronics returns are because the consumer couldn't set up the equipment." The first products using UWB technology from Intel are due to hit the market later this
Tony Blair has dismissed reports he told Gordon Brown he would quit before the next general election. "You don't do deals over jobs like this," the prime minister told BBC One's Breakfast with Frost programme. According to a new book, Brown's Britain, Mr Blair went back on a pledge to make way for Mr Brown after Cabinet allies intervened in June 2004. Mr Blair said the claims were "reheated from six months ago" and that he was concentrating on running the country. Mr Blair said: "I've dealt with this six months ago. I said then you don't do deals over jobs like this - you don't. "What both of us are actually concentrating on are the issues that concern the country." The book, by Sunday Telegraph journalist Robert Peston and serialised in the newspaper, said the pair had "mutual animosity and contempt" for each other. It claims Tony Blair felt by November 2003 he had lost voters' trust because of the Iraq war and that he was no longer an asset to the Labour Party. And that at a dinner hosted by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott he told Mr Brown of his intention to stand down. According to Mr Peston the prime minister said: "Help me to get through the year and I will then stand down." But he then changed his mind in June 2004, following intervention from allies in the Cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor was deliberately manoeuvring against him, according to the book. Mr
The number of personal computers worldwide is expected to double by 2010 to 1.3 billion machines, according to a report by analysts Forrester Research. The growth will be driven by emerging markets such as China, Russia and India, the report predicted. More than a third of all new PCs will be in these markets, with China adding 178 million new PCs by 2010, it said. Low-priced computers made by local companies are expected to dominate in such territories, Forrester said. The report comes less than a week after IBM, a pioneer of the PC business, sold its PC hardware division to China's number one computer maker Lenovo. The $1.75bn (£900m) deal will make the combined operation the third biggest PC vendor in the world. "Today's products from Western PC vendors won't dominate in those markets in the long term," Simon Yates, a senior analyst for Forrester, said. "Instead local PC makers like Lenovo Group in China and Aquarius in Russia that can better tailor the PC form factor, price point and applications to their local markets will ultimately win the market share battle," he said. There are currently 575 million PCs in use globally. The United States, Europe and Asia-Pacific are expected to add 150 million new PCs by 2010, according to the study. The report forecast that there will be 80 million new PC users in India by 2010 and 40 million new users in Indonesia.
The China Three Gorges Project Corp is refusing to obey a government order to stop construction of one of its giant dams, the Chinese state press has said. The builder of the Three Gorges Dam is continuing work on the sister Xiluodu dam, said the Beijing News. The Xiluodu dam is one of 30 such large-scale construction projects called to a halt because of a lack of proper environmental checks. The Beijing News said the company may instead choose to pay a fine. The firm has also ignored orders to stop construction at two of its other projects - the Three Gorges Underground Power Plant and the Three Gorges Project Electrical Power Supply Plant. So far, only 22 of the 30 construction projects targeted by China's State Environmental Protection Agency (Sepa) for having not carried out mandatory environmental impact assessments have complied with its shutdown order. The China Three Gorges Project Corp could now face a fine up to 200,000 yuan ($24,000; £12,700). Last week, it denied that its projects violated regulations. "The Three Gorges Corporation has all along abided by the law and have built our projects in accordance with the law," it said. The Sepa order comes as the Chinese government appears to be trying to cool the country's booming economy. Previously it has encouraged construction of new electricity generating capacity to solve chronic energy shortages, which forced many factories into part-time working last year. In 2004, China increased its generating capacity by 12.6% to 440,700 megawatts (MW).
The number of Europeans with broadband has exploded over the past 12 months, with the web eating into TV viewing habits, research suggests. Just over 54 million people are hooked up to the net via broadband, up from 34 million a year ago, according to market analysts Nielsen/NetRatings. The total number of people online in Europe has broken the 100 million mark. The popularity of the net has meant that many are turning away from TV, say analysts Jupiter Research. It found that a quarter of web users said they spent less time watching TV in favour of the net The report by Nielsen/NetRatings found that the number of people with fast internet access had risen by 60% over the past year. The biggest jump was in Italy, where it rose by 120%. Britain was close behind, with broadband users almost doubling in a year. The growth has been fuelled by lower prices and a wider choice of always-on, fast-net subscription plans. "Twelve months ago high speed internet users made up just over one third of the audience in Europe; now they are more than 50% and we expect this number to keep growing," said Gabrielle Prior, Nielsen/NetRatings analyst. "As the number of high-speed surfers grows, websites will need to adapt, update and enhance their content to retain their visitors and encourage new ones." The total number of Europeans online rose by 12% to 100 million over the past year, the report showed, with the biggest rise in France, Italy,
Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez was satisfied after his team's 3-1 win over Bayer Leverkusen despite conceding a goal in the last minute. "Before the game if you had said the score will be 3-1 I would have happily accepted that," said Benitez. "But you must realise that you have to concentrate right to the very last seconds of a game at this level. "I have confidence that we can complete the task in Germany. I am always confident and we must be positive." Benitez defended goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek, whose failure to hold on to Dimitar Berbatov's weak drive allowed Franca to score with the last kick of the game - and give the German team a lifeline for the second leg. "For me it was not Jerzy Dudek's fault," added Benitez. "He had played a very good game - and had we scored our other chances, nobody would be talking about about their goal. It would not have mattered. "If we had scored our other chances it would not have been worth remembering that last goal. "In my opinion Jerzy played well, made two very fine saves - and I am happy with him. "If we lose 2-0 we are out but I think we can score in Germany - certainly one, and that will make all the difference." And the Liverpool boss is looking forward to having skipper Steven Gerrard, who was suspended for the Anfield leg, back for the return in Germany. "Steven Gerrard is a key player
Irish band U2 have been honoured at France's biggest music awards, but were beaten to a prize by boy band Blue. U2 received a special achievement prize at the NRJ Music Awards, but Blue beat them to the international group award. US band Maroon 5 was named best new international artist, and took the best international song title for This Love. More than five million radio listeners voted in the awards. The international male and female prizes went to Usher and Avril Lavigne respectively. Collecting his band's award from model Naomi Campbell at the Cannes ceremony, U2 frontman Bono said in French: "I'm not from this country but I'll make a little confession to you - it's at the Cote d'Azur I feel at home." Hosted by radio group NRJ, the ceremony featured performances from Usher and Jennifer Lopez, who was accompanied by dancers clad in schoolgirl outfits. US pop act Black Eyed Peas picked up the best international album gong for Elephunk. Singer Jenifer also took home two awards, for best French female singer and best French album. French-Canadian pop star Roch Voisine was named best Francophone male artist.
US retail sales ended the year on a high note with solid gains in December, boosted by strong car sales. Seasonally adjusted sales rose 1.2% in the month, compared to 0.1% a month earlier, boosted by a surge in shopping just before and after Christmas. Sales climbed 8% for the year, the best performance since an 8.5% rise in 1999, the Commerce Department added. The gains were led by a 4.3% jump in auto sales as dealers used enhanced offers to get cars out of showrooms. Dealers were forced to cut prices in December to maintain sales growth in a tough quarter when the usual end-of-year holiday sales boom was slow to get started. The increase in sales during December pushed total spending for the month to $349.4bn (£265.9bn). Sales for the year also broke through the $4 trillion mark for the first time - with annual sales coming in at $4.06 trillion However, if automotives are excluded from December's data, retail sales rose just 0.3% on the month. Home furnishings and furniture stores also performed well, rising 2.2%. But as well as hitting the shops, more US consumers were going online or using mail order for their purchases - with non-store retailers seeing sales rise by 1.9%. However, analysts said that the strong figures were unlikely to put the Federal Reserve Bank off its current policy of measured interest rate rises. "Consumers for now remain willing to spend freely, sustaining the US expansion. Given that attitude, the Fed remains
Fiat and General Motors (GM) have until midnight on 1 February to settle a disagreement over a potential takeover. The deadline marks the point at which Fiat will gain the right to sell its car division to GM, part of an alliance agreed in 2000. GM, whose own European operations are losing money, no longer wants to own the unprofitable Fiat unit. Reports of deadlocked talks sent Fiat shares down 1.2% on Tuesday, after Monday's 4% gain on hopes of a payoff. The US firm is thought to be offering about $2bn (£1.06bn) to extricate itself from the arrangement. It has argued the deal was voided by Fiat's decision to sell off Fiat's finance arm and halve GM's stake via a capital-raising effort. The 2000 deal resulted from a race between GM and DaimlerChrysler to ally with Fiat. The German firm wanted to buy Fiat outright. But Gianni Agnelli, the godfather of the group, wanted to keep control, and preferred GM's offer to buy a 20% stake and give Fiat the right to sell in the future, known as a "put option". Since then, however, Fiat cars have lost market share and the firm has piled up losses, while a plan to raise new money in 2003 cut GM's stake in half to 10%. For its part, GM's European units Opel and Saab have both had trouble, with Opel management threatening to cut 12,000 jobs. "The last thing they need is additional production capacity in Europe," said Patrick Juchemich, auto
Actor Leonardo DiCaprio's "exceptional career" has been honoured at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival. The star was presented with the award by Martin Scorsese, who directed him in Oscar-nominated movie The Aviator. "It's a lifetime achievement award, which is completely and utterly surreal, given I'm only 30 years old," DiCaprio said. "But what has it been? Almost 17 years now. I've done quite a few films." A retrospective of his movies was shown. "What's really exciting, for me, is that this is what I really love doing," he added. "It's what I want to do for the rest of my life." DiCaprio began his movie career in horror film Critters 3, before moving onto roles in The Basketball Diaries, Romeo and Juliet, Titanic and Gangs of New York. The achievement award was created to commemorate the California festival's 20th anniversary and coincided with DiCaprio's portrayal of millionaire Howard Hughes in The Aviator. Veteran actress Jane Russell, who starred in Hughes' 1943 film The Outlaw, said was impressed by DiCaprio's quest for authenticity when he previously discussed the role with her. "I was very happy that (DiCaprio) came and cared to come up and find out what (Hughes) was really like," she said. The Aviator has taken pole position in this year's Oscars race with 11 nominations, including nominations for best film, best actor for DiCaprio and best director for Scorsese.
Russian oil firm Yukos lied to a US court in an attempt to stop the Russian government selling off its key production unit, the court has heard. The unit, Yugansk, was sold to pay off a $27.5bn (£14.5bn) back tax bill. Yukos argued that since it had a US subsidiary and local bank accounts, the US court could declare it bankrupt and stop the auction of Yugansk. But Deutsche Bank - itself a target of a Yukos lawsuit - said documents had been backdated to strengthen the case. Deutsche Bank's evidence came on the first day of a two-day hearing in Houston. Its lawyer, Hugh Ray, told the court that Yukos had claimed it had transferred $27m into two Texas bank accounts opened by its new US subsidiary. By doing so, he said, the firm had intended to reinforce its US presence - and thus its chances of getting its case heard in US courts. But he said that the papers documenting the transaction were not drawn up till weeks after Yukos made its bankruptcy application on 14 December, and then backdated. Yukos chief financial officer Bruce Misamore, who had moved to the US in early December to set up Yukos USA, acknowledged the point. He said the discrepancy was only in the paperwork, but that money had indeed been transferred on 14 December. Even so, he told the court that only $480,000 had been in the accounts that day, with the rest arriving a day later. Deutsche Bank is
Mike Leigh's film Vera Drake will lead British hopes at this year's Academy Awards after getting three nominations. Imelda Staunton was nominated for best actress for her role in the abortion drama, while Leigh received nods for best director and original screenplay. Kate Winslet was also nominated in the best actress category for her role in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. And Clive Owen and Sophie Okonedo both got nominated for supporting roles in Closer and Hotel Rwanda respectively. Owen has already been made bookmakers' favourite for best supporting actor for the role in Closer that has already clinched him a Golden Globe award. And it is the first nomination for actress Okonedo, chosen for her performance in Hotel Rwanda, about the 1994 Rwandan genocide. It is also a debut nomination for Staunton, 49, who told BBC News 24 she had not thought the film would appeal to Academy voters. "It was an extraordinary time making the film and I can't believe what has happened this morning," she said. "I hope it just shows Mike up to be the extraordinary filmmaker he is. "We are also dealing with a very difficult subject matter and it is amazing to have it accepted in this way." Leigh, who had previously received three Oscar nominations for Secrets and Lies and Topsy Turvy, told BBC News 24 the latest success was "amazing". He said: "We hoped that Imelda Staunton would get a nomination but I never expected to get director and screenplay. It's
Cold weather across parts of the United States and much of Europe has pushed US crude oil prices above $50 a barrel for the first time in almost three months. Freezing temperatures and heavy snowfall have increased demand for heating fuel in the US, where stocks are low. Fresh falls in the value of the dollar helped carry prices above the $50 mark for the first time since November. A barrel of US crude oil closed up $2.80 to $51.15 in New York on Tuesday. Opec members said on Tuesday that it saw no reason to cut its output. Although below last year's peak of $55.67 a barrel, which was reached in October, prices are now well above 2004's average of $41.48. Brent crude also rose in London trading, adding $1.89 to $48.62 at the close. Much of western Europe and the north east of America has been shivering under unseasonably low temperatures in recent days. The decline in the US dollar to a five-week low against the euro has also served to inflate prices. "The dollar moved sharply overnight and oil is following it," said Chris Furness, senior market strategist at 4Cast. "If the dollar continues to weaken, oil will be obviously higher." Several Opec members said a cut in production was unlikely, citing rising prices and strong demand for oil from Asia. "I agree that we do not need to cut supply if the prices are as much as this," Fathi Bin Shatwan, Libya's oil minister, told Reuters.
Former France centre Philippe Sella believes coach Bernard Laporte must recall Frederic Michalak to give his side any chance of beating Ireland. Sella admitted he had been impressed by current fly-half Yann Delaigue in the RBS Six Nations to date. But he told BBC Sport: "Michalak is the answer both now and for the future. Delaigue deserved his chance but the time has come to bring back Michalak. "He does have weaknesses but has the all-round game to upset Ireland." The 22-year-old Michalak has spent much of the tournament on the bench after Delaigue impressed for Castres early in the season. With Michalak overlooked, the French stuttered to narrow wins over Scotland and then England before ironically playing their best rugby in the defeat to Wales. "The Wales game was amazing to watch but never did I think the French could lose that game at half-time," said Sella. "Their only mistakes were that they didn't score enough points in the first half and were a little bit less focused in the second... but only a little bit." Sella, however, insisted the pressure had eased on the under-fire Laporte, despite the defeat at the Stade de France. "This season is very important for shaping a team for the 2007 World Cup," said Sella, "which Laporte is doing very well. The French get better every game. "It's difficult, though, when you change a team and you change your tactics as everything has to gel. "But he has the players and the talent
Robots are learning lessons on "robotiquette" - how to behave socially - so they can mix better with humans. By playing games, like pass-the-parcel, a University of Hertfordshire team is finding out how future robot companions should react in social situations. The study's findings will eventually help humans develop a code of social behaviour in human-robot interaction. The work is part of the European Cogniron robotics project, and was on show at London's Science Museum. "We are assuming a situation in which a useful human companion robot already exists," said Professor Kerstin Dautenhahn, project leader at Hertfordshire. "Our mission is to look at how such a robot should be programmed to respect personal spaces of humans." The research also focuses on human perception of robots, including how they should look, and how a robot can learn new skills by imitating a human demonstrator. "Without such studies, you will build robots which might not respect the fact that humans are individuals, have preferences and come from different cultural backgrounds," Professor Dautenhahn told BBC News Online. "And I want robots to treat humans as human beings, and not like other robots," she added. In most situations, a companion robot will eventually have to deal not only with one person, but also with groups of people. To find out how they would react, the Hertfordshire Cogniron team taught one robot to play pass-the-parcel with children. Showing off its skills at the Science Museum, the unnamed robot had to select, approach, and ask different
Rio Ferdinand has said he is unsure of Malcolm Glazer's motives after the American billionaire launched a new offer to buy Manchester United. The club have confirmed that the Glazer Family Partnership have submitted proposals of a third bid. "A lot of people want the club's interest to be with people who have grown up with the club and have got its interests at heart," said Ferdinand. "No one knows what this guy will be bringing to the table." The central defender added on BBC Radio Five Live: "We will have to wait and see what Glazer comes with. "I would like to see the situation resolved either way. "I think people are getting bored with him coming in and out of the news with new proposals. "The other stuff off the pitch takes the shine off what is going on the pitch." Glazer, currently owns a 28.1% stake in the club, and United's statement to the stock exchange said: "The board has noted the recent press speculation on this subject. "The board can confirm that it has now received a detailed proposal subject to various pre-conditions which may form the basis of an offer for Manchester United from Glazer. "A further announcement will be made in due course." Glazer's previous bids for the club, which United supporters opposed, were rejected by the board because of the high level of debt they would incur. But it is believed that Glazer has substantially reduced the borrowing required for his latest move.
"Do you have it in your heart? How much guts do you have? How much do you hate to lose?" These are the questions Jimmy Connors will be asking of Britain's brightest tennis hopes in the months, and possibly years, to come. The American legend swept into London on Thursday to announce a "long-term" relationship with the Lawn Tennis Association after spending three days at the Elite Performance winter camp in La Manga. And the man who epitomised the phrase 'will to win' before Lleyton Hewitt was even born is clear about the qualities he hopes to convey. "You know, everybody hits the ball well and there's a very fine line between number one and number 100," said Connors. "I was that fine line for a long time. But if I can help, I want to be part of teaching kids how to win." Connors is not the first great name to offer his services to the LTA - his long-time rival John McEnroe has repeatedly done the same. But Connors is at pains to point out that his interest goes well beyond any publicity stunt, and he gave a glowing recommendation to the work of LTA performance director David Felgate and his team. "Britain has a different attitude, the right attitude, in taking the game forward and finding the next Wimbledon champion," said Connors. "That's something you don't find every day. Everybody talks a good game but not everybody puts that into effect. "The impression I came away with
Final appeals are being made for the government not to ditch the reform plan for England's secondary schools put forward by the Tomlinson report. The government's response to the plan for a four-tier diploma to replace all existing 14-19 qualifications is expected next week. Some are worried it could be scuppered if, as Tony Blair and Ruth Kelly have suggested, GCSEs and A-levels stay. Sir Mike Tomlinson himself was briefed only this week. He is said to be feeling more comfortable about what the government is likely to say than if he had read only what was in newspapers in the earlier part of the week. But the government was said to be still rewriting its response on Friday. "It will be a tragedy if the government comes through with a half-hearted response," said the chairman of the Commons education select committee, Labour MP Barry Sheerman. His main concern was the reports that there would be a diploma - but only to replace existing vocational qualifications. "We must tackle head-on the structural mess that is our secondary education system," he wrote in the Times Educational Supplement. "It is not the case that the academic stream in secondary is fine while the vocational route is desperately weak." The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) has also told the government not to "compromise". The QCA said the potential "step-change in participation and attainment" lay in the integrity of the whole diploma. "Any partial implementation of the proposals would, in our view, compromise that
Pan-European stock market Euronext has approached the London Stock Exchange (LSE) about a possible takeover bid. "The approach is at an early stage and therefore does not require a response at this point," LSE said. Talks with the European stock market and with rival bidder Deutsche Boerse will continue, the LSE said. Last week, the group rejected a £1.3bn ($2.5bn) takeover offer from Deutsche Boerse, claiming that it undervalued the business. LSE saw its shares surge 4.9% to a new high of 583p in early trade, following the announcement on Monday. The offer follows widespread media speculation that Euronext would make an offer for LSE. Experts now widely expect a bidding war for Europe's biggest stock market, which lists stocks with a total capitalisation of £1.4 trillion, to break out. Commentators say that a deal with Euronext, which owns the Liffe derivatives exchange in London and combines the Paris, Amsterdam and Lisbon stock exchanges, could potentially offer the LSE more cost savings than a deal with Deutsche Boerse. A weekend report in the Telegraph had quoted an unnamed executive at Euronext as saying the group would make a cash bid to trump Deutsche Boerse's offer. "Because we already own Liffe in London, the cost savings available to us from a merger are far greater than for Deutsche Boerse," the newspaper quoted the executive as saying. Euronext chief executive Jean-Francois Theodore is reported to have already held private talks with LSE's chief executive Clara Furse. Further reports had suggested that Euronext
British children enjoy the highest average annual income in Europe - more than double that of Spanish or Italian youngsters, a report suggests. Children in the UK between the ages of 10 and 17 had an annual income of £775, said market analyst Datamonitor. They use "pester power" to get their parents to stump up nearly a third of this income, the report said. As for how they spend their cash, the bulk goes on personal care, soft drinks and food, Datamonitor said. Datamonitor adds that British teenagers are keen on personal care because it helps them combine two seemingly contradictory emotional needs - the desire to fit in and the desire to express their individuality. British teenage girls, compared to their counterparts in seven European countries, are the most keen to use make-up products. Nearly three out of four girls said they used make-up. According to the Datamonitor report the trend marked British teenagers out as "particularly important to cosmetics manufacturers as they are likely to experiment more with brands and products and form long-term beauty routines". And the good times are likely to keep rolling for British children, as the report predicts that they will still be topping the earnings table in 2008.
If you are a geek or gadget fan, the next 12 months look like they are going to be a lot of fun. The relentless pace of development in the hi-tech world and rampant competition in many of its sectors, particularly among mobile phone firms, all suggests that 2005 is going to be a very good year. To begin with, 2005 will be the year that third-generation (3G) mobile phones become inescapable. The 3 network launched in 2003, Vodafone launched its consumer service in November, Orange followed in early December and T-Mobile and O2 are due to launch in 2005. The main result of these launches will likely be a slew of good deals for consumers as operators try to poach new customers from rivals and convince existing users to trade up. Already the extra capacity in 3G networks lets 3 offer good deals on voice calls at rates that will probably have to be matched by the other operators. But the shift in technology and low cost of voice calls means that operators lose a significant chunk of their revenue. "Show me an operator that believes their voice business can sustain them, and I'll write their obituary" said Niel Ransom, chief technology officer at Alcatel. Instead operators are likely to push all other things that 3G phones can do such as video messaging and other multimedia capabilities. Already camera phones look set to challenge digital cameras and are likely to win more fans as multi-megapixel devices go on sale.
Support for a ban on hunting has fallen in the past six years, a poll suggests. Less than half the UK wants a ban compared to almost two-thirds in 1999, the Mori survey of 2,000 adults for BBC One's Countryfile programme suggests. The number opposed to a ban remains constant, but those "neither supporting nor opposing" has increased by 11%. Most city-dwellers support the ban but rural people were evenly split between supporters, opponents and undecided. Polling company Mori carried out both surveys. In July 1999 they asked 801 adults if they supported the ban for the Mail on Sunday. For Countryfile they asked 2,234 adults across the country the same question. The Mail on Sunday survey found that 63% supported a hunting ban compared with 24% against. In the Countryfile survey, 47% said they supported the legislation, with 26% against. But the programme makers suggest the British public are becoming "increasingly neutral" to the issue because around one quarter said they "neither support nor oppose" a ban.
Sprinter Michelle Collins has received an eight-year ban for doping offences after a hearing at the North American Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). America's former world indoor 200m champion is the first athlete to be suspended without a positive drugs test or an admission of drugs use. Collins' ban is a result of her connection to the federal inquiry into the Balco doping scandal. The 33-year-old was found guilty of using performance-enhancing drugs. The US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) decided to press charges against Collins in the summer. The sprinter has consistently protested her innocence but the CAS has upheld USADA's findings. "The USADA has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Collins took EPO, the testosterone/epitestosterone cream and THG," said a CAS statement. "Collins used these substances to enhance her performance and elude the drug testing that was available at the time." So far a total of 13 athletes have been sanctioned for violations involving drugs associated with the Balco doping scandal. World record holder Tim Montgomery is also facing a lifetime ban after being charged by the USADA. His hearing before the CSA has been rescheduled for June next year. Drug enforcement chiefs in the US have vowed to crack down on cheats. USADA chief executive officer Terry Madden said the action taken against Collins was further proof of that. "The CAS panel's decision confirms that those who violate the rules will be sanctioned as part of USADA's ongoing efforts to protect the rights of the overwhelming majority of
Only one man recognises that robots are a threat to humanity - but that's fine because it only takes one man to save the day in the thriller I, Robot. Will Smith co-stars alongside more CGI robots than you can count and as a thrill-a-minute kind of action film, it's perfectly adequate. You'll have forgotten it all tomorrow but you'll have a fun night with the film and all the extras. There is a one-disc version that has commentaries and a Making Of but the two-disc adds more. Unusually for this kind of film, the extras don't solely concentrate on the special effects. They're covered but there's also a general Production Diary and a Post-Production feature. Remember the National Lottery's draw machines Arthur and Guinevere? They were more accurate than this glossy Hollywood version of the tale. But as long as you're not expecting a documentary, live with it: King Arthur is a fun, exciting, totally shallow experience and looks excellent. Clive Owen is the brooding king, Keira Knightly rises above her costume and Ray Winstone gives it all some grit. It's at its best in its battle scenes which are well done and are also the best part of the Making Of extra. Less flashy than a David Attenborough show and less detailed than a Simon Schama one, the BBC series British Isles nevertheless turned out to be quite engrossing. Admit it, the fact that this is one of the shows Alan Titchmarsh left Ground Force to present did
Fast web access is encouraging more people to express themselves online, research suggests. A quarter of broadband users in Britain regularly upload content and have personal sites, according to a report by UK think-tank Demos. It said that having an always-on, fast connection is changing the way people use the internet. More than five million households in the UK have broadband and that number is growing fast. The Demos report looked at the impact of broadband on people's net habits. It found that more than half of those with broadband logged on to the web before breakfast. One in five even admitted to getting up in the middle of the night to browse the web. More significantly, argues the report, broadband is encouraging people to take a more active role online. It found that one in five post something on the net everyday, ranging from comments or opinions on sites to uploading photographs. "Broadband is putting the 'me' in media as it shifts power from institutions and into the hands of the individual," said John Craig, co-author of the Demos report. "From self-diagnosis to online education, broadband creates social innovation that moves the debate beyond simple questions of access and speed." The Demos report, entitled Broadband Britain: The End Of Asymmetry?, was commissioned by net provider AOL. "Broadband is moving the perception of the internet as a piece of technology to an integral part of home life in the UK," said Karen Thomson, Chief Executive of AOL UK, "with many
Clint Eastwood's boxing drama Million Dollar Baby has become the new favourite to win best picture at the Oscars on Sunday. According to pundits, the film has overtaken previous favourite The Aviator, with Eastwood also tipped to take the best director award. Its star Hilary Swank is favourite to win best actress while Jamie Foxx is tipped to win best actor for Ray. Million Dollar Baby has seven nominations while The Aviator has 11. The Aviator has scored a best director nomination for Martin Scorsese, who has never won an Oscar, while stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Cate Blanchett are both nominated for acting Oscars. "If you look at the Oscars race, The Aviator should be ahead," said awards pundit Tom O'Neil. "It is the most nominated film, and the most nominated movie has won best picture 18 times out of the last 20 years. "But the reality is Million Dollar Baby is the dark horse. People feel emotionally about it and Clint is a beloved Hollywood chum of the Academy voters," he said. Anne Thompson of the Hollywood Reporter said that Million Dollar Baby was "heart-wrenching". "It's very emotional, it even makes grown men cry," she said. "The Aviator is a gorgeous movie, but it's colder." In the acting categories, Foxx is regarded as almost unbeatable for his performance as Ray Charles in Ray. "The performance is based on a real person who was a showbusiness hero with a handicap, who recently died," O'Neil said. "He has unstoppable momentum among
The £10bn Crossrail transport plan, backed by business groups, is to get the go-ahead this month, according to The Mail on Sunday. It says the UK Treasury has allocated £7.5bn ($13.99bn) for the project and that talks with business groups on raising the rest will begin shortly. The much delayed Crossrail Link Bill would provide for a fast cross-London rail link. The paper says it will go before the House of Commons on 23 February. A second reading could follow on 16 or 17 March. "We've always said we are going to introduce a hybrid Bill for Crossrail in the Spring and this remains the case," the Department for Transport said on Sunday. Jeremy de Souza, a spokesman for Crossrail, said on Sunday he could not confirm whether the Treasury was planning to invest £7.5bn or when the bill would go before Parliament. However, he said some impetus may have been provided by the proximity of an election. The new line would go out as far as Maidenhead, Berkshire, to the west of London, and link Heathrow to Canary Wharf via the City. Heathrow to the City would take 40 minutes, dramatically cutting journey times for business travellers, and reducing overcrowding on the tube. The line has the support of the Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, business groups and the government, but there have been three years of arguments over how it should be funded. The Mail on Sunday's Financial Mail said the £7.5bn of Treasury money was earmarked for
European cross-country champion Hayley Yelling completed a hat-trick of wins in the Reebok Cardiff Cross Challenge in Bute Park on Sunday afternoon. The part-time maths teacher beat Irish international Jolene Byrne by 40 metres in the six-kilometre race. Another Great Britain international, Louise Damen, finished third as part of the contingent representing England. Peter Riley, who secured bronze for the GB men's team at last month's European Championships, won the men's 9km race. Riley, representing England, moved away over the last two kilometres to win by 25 metres from Ireland's Gary Murray. Glynn Tromans - the reigning UK Inter-Countries and England Cross-Country champion - came in third place as he continues his comeback from a five-month injury lay-off.
Companies fail to draw up plans to cope with HIV/Aids until it affects 20% of people in a country, new research says. The finding comes in a report published on Thursday by the World Economic Forum, Harvard and the UN aids agency. "Too few companies are responding proactively to the social and business threats," said Dr Kate Taylor, head of the WEF's global Health Initiative. Nearly 9,000 business leaders in 104 countries were surveyed for Business and HIV/AIDS: Commitment and Action? Dr Taylor described the level of action taken by businesses as revealed by the report as "too little, too late". The issue will be highlighted to business and world leaders at the World Economic Forum, which meets in Davos, Switzerland, next week. The WEF report shows that despite the fact that 14,000 people contract HIV/Aids every day, concern among businesses has dropped by 23% in the last 12 months. Most (71%) have no policies in place to address the disease. Nor could over 65% of the business leaders surveyed say or estimate the prevalence of HIV among their staff. The UN programme tackling Aids, UNAIDS, pointed out that having a clear strategy for dealing with HIV/Aids was a good investment as well as being socially responsible. One company that does have a plan is Anglo-American, the international mining company, which estimates an HIV prevalence of 24% among its 130,000-strong Southern African workforce. Over the last two years the company has implemented extensive voluntary counselling and testing for HIV infection,
Celtic's Henri Camara and Nacho Novo of Rangers have both been suspended for offences missed by the referee in a recent Old Firm game. Both were given automatic one-match bans and 12 additional disciplinary points for their actions. That means Novo will miss a further two games because of his prior record. Camara will miss one additional game. Novo was found guilty of stamping on Celtic's Stephen Pearson. Camara was punished for kicking Gregory Vignal. "I'm extremely disappointed. I don't know if there's a lot to add to that," said Rangers manager Alex McLeish of Novo's punishment. "But what I will say is that I'm at a loss as to why that incident should be picked up and highlighted when there were so many other incidents during the game." Both players will miss this weekend's games when Celtic host Dundee United and Rangers visit Kilmarnock unless they decide to appeal. The additional bans come into effect from 28 December meaning Camara will also be unavailable for the home game against Livingston while Novo will miss the meetings with Dundee United and Dunfermline. An SFA spokesman said: "They have seven days to appeal but with matches coming along at the weekend they would need to do so before Friday. "But if they do appeal it won't be heard before this weekend because it takes a bit of time to seat up an appeals tribunal." Meanwhile, Bob Malcolm and Rangers have been informed by letter as to the outcome of the hearing
Some 2,000 jobs at MG Rover's Midlands plant may be cut if investment in the firm by a Chinese car maker goes ahead, the Financial Times has reported. Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp plans to shift production of the Rover 25 to China and export it to the UK, sources close to the negotiations tell the FT. But Rover told BBC News that reports of job cuts were "speculation". A tie-up, seen as Rover's last chance to save its Longbridge plant, has been pushed by UK Chancellor Gordon Brown. Rover confirmed the tie-up would take place "not very far away from this time". Rover bosses have said they are "confident" the £1bn ($1.9bn) investment deal would be signed in March or early April. Transport & General Worker's Union general secretary Tony Woodley repeated his view on Friday that all mergers led to some job cuts. He said investment in new models was needed to ensure the future of the Birmingham plant. "This is a very crucial and delicate time and our efforts are targeted to securing new models for the company which will mean jobs for our people," he said. SAIC says none of its money will be paid to the four owners of Rover, who have been accused by unions of awarding themselves exorbitant salaries, the FT reports. "SAIC is extremely concerned to ensure that its money is used to invest in the business rather than be distributed to the shareholders," the newspaper quotes a source close to the Chinese
Stade de France, Paris Saturday, 26 February 1600 GMT BBC1, Radio 4 LW and this website France may have beaten Scotland and England but they were tedious and uninspired throughout both matches. Wales, on the other hand, have played some fine rugby and have made their best start since they last won the title in 1994. They also have a good record at the Stade de France, having won their first two games there, in 1999 and 2001. Wales have made two changes from the team that thrashed Italy 38-8 in Rome. Kevin Morgan takes over from his injured Newport-Gwent Dragons colleague Hal Luscombe on the right wing. In the pack Neath-Swansea Ospreys forward Ryan Jones bas been brought on the blind-side flank to beef up the Wales back row in place of Jonathan Thomas. Wales coach Mike Ruddock is determined that his team will not go into their shells after their promising start to the championship. "Graham Henry (former Wales coach) said a couple of years ago that we should 'be bold' when going to France, and he was proved right," said Ruddock. "That is a great way to approach the game, and something we will further endorse with the players this week." Despite their stuttering displays in their first two games defending champions France are also unbeaten. Under-pressure coach Bernard Laporte has made four changes, with Yannick Nyanga, the debutant Julien Laharrague, Aurelien Rougerie and Yannick Jauzion coming into the side. France have been criticised for the absence
The International Association of Athletics Federations will appeal against the acquittal of Greek athletes Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou. The high-profile duo were cleared of doping offences by the Greek Athletics Federation (Segas) last month. Now the IAAF will lodge an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) and has suspended both athletes. An IAAF statement said: "The Doping Review Board concluded that the decision is erroneous." The statement continued: "Both athletes' cases will be refered to arbitration before the CAS. The decision in both cases will be final and binding." Segas said the IAAF appeal was "expected" and "understandable." "Now we are going to await the final result, which we cannot prejudge," said Segas chairman Vassilis Sevastis. Kenteris, who won Olympic 200m gold at the 2000 Olympics, and Thanou were suspended by the IAAF last December after failing to take routine drugs tests before the Athens Games. However, the independent tribunal overturned those bans, clearing the sprinters of avoiding tests in Tel Aviv, Chicago and Athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the Olympics. Kenteris' lawyer Gregory Ioannidis described the IAAF's decision as "not unexpected" but told BBC Sport he did not expect the organisation to take action so quickly. "The IAAF's timing is extremely surprising and it creates concerns and questions," said Ioannidis. "The IAAF has not yet received the complete file of proceedings which include statements, testimonies, the closing speeches of defence counsel... and nine audio tapes. "We have the evidence
Ken Bates has completed his takeover of Leeds United. The 73-year-old former Chelsea chairman sealed the deal at 0227 GMT on Friday, and has bought a 50% stake in the club. He said: "I'm delighted to be stepping up to the mantel at such a fantastic club. I recognise Leeds as a great club that has fallen on hard times. "We have a lot of hard work ahead to get the club back where it belongs in the Premiership, and with the help of our fans we will do everything we can." Bates bought his stake under the guise of a Geneva-based company known as The Forward Sports Fund. He revealed that part of his plan is to buy back Leeds' Elland Road stadium and Thorp Arch training ground in due course. "It's going to be a tough jon and the first task is to stabilise the cash flow and sort out the remaining creditors," Bates added. "But there is light at the end of a very long tunnel. For the past year it has been a matter of firefighting - now we can start running the club again." Outgoing Leeds chairman Gerald Krasner said: "This deal ensures the medium to long term survival of the club and I believe Mr Bates' proposals are totally for the benefit of the club. "We are content that under Mr Bates, Leeds United will continue to consolidate and move forward. "When we took over Leeds United in March 2004, the club had a
Consumers want music rather than movies while on the move, says a report. Produced by Jupiter Research the analysis of the portable media player market found only 13% of Europeans want to watch video while out and about. By contrast, almost a third are interested in listening to music on a portable player such as an iPod. The firm said gadget makers should avoid hybrid devices and instead make sure music reproduction was as good as possible. The report concluded that the driving force behind the growth of Europe's portable player market was likely to be music, rather than films or any combination of the two. Barely 5% of those questioned said they wanted a player that could play back both music and movies. Only 7% wanted a player that could handle games and video. "Dedicated music players are the only established digital media players in Europe today despite their high prices," said Ian Fogg, Jupiter analyst. Mr Fogg said although video players and smartphones were trying to cash in on this success they faced a tough job because of the compromises that had to be made when creating a dual-purpose device. "Europeans care most about music playback," he said. The report showed that 27% of consumers asked are interested in portable music players. The research revealed that French, 39%, and British, 31%, consumers were most interested in music players. Mr Fogg said portable video players were likely to remain a niche product that would not be able to compete
A blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps. Victor Wong, a graduate student from Hong Kong studying at Cornell University in New York State, had to read coloured maps of the upper atmosphere as part of his research. To study "space weather" Mr Wong needed to explore minute fluctuations in order to create mathematical models. A number of solutions were tried, including having a colleague describe the maps and attempting to print them in Braille. Mr Wong eventually hit upon the idea of translating individual colours into music, and enlisted the help of a computer graphics specialist and another student to do the programming work. "The images have three dimensions and I had to find a way of reading them myself," Mr Wong told the BBC News website. "For the sake of my own study - and for the sake of blind scientists generally - I felt it would be good to develop software that could help us to read colour images." He tried a prototype version of the software to explore a photograph of a parrot. In order to have an exact reference to the screen, a pen and tablet device is used. The software then assigns one of 88 piano notes to individually coloured pixels - ranging from blue at the lower end of this scale to red at the upper end. Mr Wong says the application is still very much in its infancy and is only
UK Chancellor Gordon Brown has offered £960m ($1.8bn) over 15 years to an international scheme aiming to boost vaccination and immunisation schemes. In a speech, he called for action to reach the 2000 Millennium Declaration goals of halving global poverty and tackling child mortality rates. Mr Brown has just returned from a tour of African nations. The £1bn commitment is part of a five-point plan on debt relief, trade, aid, education and health. The chancellor was speaking at an event jointly organised by the UK's Department for International Development and the UN Development Programme on Wednesday. Mr Brown welcomed news that the Bill Gates Foundation and Norway are joining up to put an extra £0.53bn ($1bn ) into the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi). Britain, France, Gavi and the Gates Foundation have drawn up proposals to apply the principles of the International Finance Facility (IFF) to the area of immunisation. That could see donors making long-term, legally binding financial commitments which can then be used as collateral for raising extra funds from international capital markets. As well as pledging £960m over 15 years to the immunisation IFF, Britain urged other donors to contribute. If Gavi could increase its funding for immunisation by an extra £4bn ($7.4bn) over 10 years, then an extra five million lives could have been saved by 2015 and five million thereafter, Mr Brown argued. Campaign groups including Friends of the Earth, the World Development Movement, and War on Want said UK government policy on
Thousands of website bulletin boards have been defaced by a virus that used Google to spread across the net. The Santy worm first appeared on 20 December and within 24 hours had successfully hit more than 40,000 websites. The malicious program exploits a vulnerability in the widely used phpBB software. Santy's spread has now been stopped after Google began blocking infected sites searching for new victims. The worm replaces chat forums with a webpage announcing that the site had been defaced by the malicious program. Soon after being infected, sites hit by the worm started randomly searching for other websites running the vulnerable phpBB software. Once Google started blocking these search queries the rate of infection tailed off sharply. A message sent to Finnish security firm F-Secure by Google's security team said: "While a seven hour response for something like this is not outrageous, we think we can and should do better." "We will be reviewing our procedures to improve our response time in the future to similar problems," the Google team said. Security firms estimate that about 1m websites run their discussion groups and forums with the open source phpBB program. The worst of the attack now seems to be over as a search conducted on the morning of the 22 December produced only 1,440 hits for sites showing the text used in the defacement message. People using the sites hit by Santy will not be affected by the worm. Santy is not the first malicious program to use
Microsoft says it is clamping down on people running pirated versions of its Windows operating system by restricting their access to security features. The Windows Genuine Advantage scheme means people will have to prove their software is genuine from mid-2005. It will still allow those with unauthorised copies to get some crucial security fixes via automatic updates, but their options would be "limited". Microsoft releases regular security updates to its software to protect PCs. Either PCs detect updates automatically or users manually download fixes through Microsoft's site. Those running pirated Windows programs would not have access to other downloads and "add-ons" that the software giant offers. People who try to manually download security patches will have to let Microsoft run an automated checking procedure on their computer or give an identification number. Microsoft's regular patches which it releases for newly-found security flaws are important because they stop worms, viruses and other threats penetrating PCs. Some security experts are concerned that restricting access to such patches could mean a rise in such attacks and threats, with more PCs left unprotected. But Graham Cluley, senior consultant at security firm Sophos, told the BBC News website that it was a positive decision. "It sounds like their decision to allow critical security patches to remain available to both legitimate and illegitimate users of Windows is good news for everyone who uses the net," he said. Windows Genuine Advantage was first introduced as a pilot scheme in September 2004 for English-language versions of Windows. Microsoft's
Technologies, from e-mail, to net chatrooms, instant messaging and mobiles, have proved to be a big pull with those looking for love. The lure once was that you could hide behind the technology, but now video phones are in on the act to add vision. Hundreds have submitted a mobile video profile to win a place at the world's first video mobile dating event. The top 100 meet their match on 30 November at London's Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA). The event, organised by the 3G network, 3, could catch on as the trend for unusual dating events, like speed dating, continues. "It's the beginning of the end of the blind date as we know it," said Graeme Oxby, 3's marketing director. The response has been so promising that 3 says it is planning to launch a proper commercial dating service soon. Hundreds of hopefuls submitted their profiles, and special booths were set up in a major London department store for two weeks where expert tips were given on how to visually improve their chances. The 100 most popular contestants voted by the public will gather at the ICA in separate rooms and "meet" by phone. Dating services and other more adult match-making services are proving to be a strong stream of revenue worth millions for mobile companies. Whether it does actually provide an interesting match for video phone technologies remains to be seen. Flic Everett, journalist and dating expert for Company magazine and the Daily Express, thinks technology has
Ferrari could be listed on the stock market as part of an overhaul of Fiat's carmaking operations, the Financial Times has reported. It said Fiat was set to restructure its business after reaching a $2bn (1.53bn euros; £1.05bn) settlement with GM about Fiat's ownership. Steps being considered include listing Ferrari and bringing Maserati and Alfa Romeo closer together, it said. Despite strong sales of Alfa Romeo, Fiat's car business is making a loss. Under the proposals - which the paper said could be announced within days - the iconic sportscar maker could be listed separately on the market. Fiat owns a 56% stake in Ferrari -best known for its dominant Formula One motor racing team - having first bought into the business in 1969. It considered floating Ferrari in 2002 but opted to sell a minority stake to Italian bank Mediobanca for 775m euros ($1bn). That sale valued Ferrari - which owns the Maserati brand - at 2.3bn euros. The price tag would change if Maserati was stripped out. The Financial Times said Fiat may transfer Maserati within its wholly- owned Alfa Romeo division in an effort to exploit commercial synergies. Such a move would help Alfa Romeo and Maserati to share marketing, distribution and research & development costs. Maserati and Ferrari sell about 10,000 cars between them and both companies broke even in 2003. Fiat, Italy's largest private sector employer, did not comment on the reported changes. Fiat recently negotiated an end to its alliance with General Motors. The
The Bank of England has left interest rates on hold again at 4.75%, in a widely-predicted move. Rates went up five times from November 2003 - as the bank sought to cool the housing market and consumer debt - but have remained unchanged since August. Recent data has indicated a slowdown in manufacturing and consumer spending, as well as in mortgage approvals. And retail sales disappointed over Christmas, with analysts putting the drop down to less consumer confidence. Rising interest rates and the accompanying slowdown in the housing market have knocked consumers' optimism, causing a sharp fall in demand for expensive goods, according to a report earlier this week from the British Retail Consortium. The BRC said Britain's retailers had endured their worst Christmas in a decade. "Today's no change decision is correct," said David Frost, Director General of the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC). "But, if there are clear signs that the economy slows, the MPC should be ready to take quick corrective action and cut rates. "Dismal reports from the retail trade about Christmas sales are worrying, if they indicate a more general weakening in consumer spending." Mr Frost added: "The housing market outlook remains highly uncertain. "It is widely accepted that, if house prices start falling more sharply, the risks facing the economy will worsen considerably." CBI chief economist Ian McCafferty said the economy had "slowed in recent months in response to rate rises" but that it was difficult to gauge from the Christmas period the likely
Tony Blair has predicted the British Government will eventually give "hundreds of millions" of pounds in aid to countries hit by the tsunami. The prime minister was speaking publicly for the first time since returning from his holiday in Egypt. Mr Blair insisted he had been "intimately involved" in "all decisions at all times" despite being abroad. He was speaking before the UK joins a three-minute silence at noon across the EU for the estimated 150,000 dead. The Foreign Office says 41 Britons are now confirmed to have died in the Tsunami which struck south Asia on Boxing Day, with 158 others missing. Asked about criticism that he did not cut short his holiday, Mr Blair told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I don't think this is a situation in which the British people need me to articulate what they feel. "I think they feel - as we all do - shock, horror, and absolute solidarity with those people who have lost their lives." The important thing was action and not words, he said, adding that of the £50m given by the government so far only "six or seven million" had been spent. It would become easier in the coming weeks to assess just how much money would have to be put in. "My estimate is we will need to spend from government several hundred million pounds. So we will far and away more than match the generosity of the British people," he said. Asked whether he had not returned
Heineken and Carlsberg, two of the world's largest brewers, have reported falling profits after beer sales in western Europe fell flat. Dutch firm Heineken saw its annual profits drop 33% and warned that earnings in 2005 may also slide. Danish brewer Carlsberg suffered a 3% fall in profits due to waning demand and increased marketing costs. Both are looking to Russia and China to provide future growth as western European markets are largely mature. Heineken's net income fell to 537m euros ($701m; £371m) during 2004, from 798m euro a year ago. It blamed weak demand in western Europe and currency losses. It had warned in September that the weakening US dollar, which has cut the value of foreign sales, would knock 125m euros off its operating profits. Despite the dip in profits, Heineken's sales have been improving and total revenue for the year was 10bn euros, up 8.1% from 9.26bn euros in 2003. Heineken said it now plans to invest 100m euros in "aggressive" and "high-impact" marketing in Europe and the US in 2005. Heineken, which also owns the Amstel and Murphy's stout brands, said it would also seek to cut costs. This may involve closing down breweries. Heineken increased its dividend payment by 25% to 40 euro cents, but warned that the continued impact of a weaker dollar and an increased marketing spend may lead to a drop in 2005 net profit. Carlsberg, the world's fifth-largest brewer, saw annual pre-tax profits fall to 3.4bn Danish kroner (456m euros). Its
The Aviator has been named best film at the Golden Globe Awards, with its star Leonardo DiCaprio named best actor. Hollywood veteran Clint Eastwood took the best director prize for Million Dollar Baby while its star Hilary Swank was best actress. Quirky comedy Sideways was named best screenplay and best comedy. Ray star Jamie Foxx was best actor in a musical/comedy while Briton Clive Owen and Natalie Portman won prizes for best supporting roles in Closer. The Aviator, in which DiCaprio plays millionaire Howard Hughes, edged ahead of its rivals at the Beverly Hills ceremony by winning the best original score prize. This give it a total of three awards while Million Dollar Baby, Sideways and Closer took two Golden Globes each. Accepting his best dramatic actor prize, DiCaprio described director Martin Scorsese as "one of the greatest contributors to the world of cinema of all time". Annette Bening won best actress in a musical/comedy for Being Julia while Spanish movie The Sea Inside was named best foreign language film. Swank, who previously won the Golden Globe and Oscar for Boys Don't Cry, paid tribute to Million Dollar Baby director and co-star Clint Eastwood. "You guided us so brilliantly, while you also, in my humble opinion, gave the performance of your career," she said. Foxx was nominated for three awards but was beaten to the best supporting actor title by Owen and the best actor in a TV movie prize by Geoffrey Rush in The Life and Death of Peter
Sir Paul McCartney wowed fans with a live mini-concert at American football's Super Bowl - and avoided any Janet Jackson-style controversies. The 62-year-old sang Hey Jude and other Beatles songs in a 12-minute set at half-time during the game in Florida. Last year, Jackson exposed a breast during a dance routine, causing outrage among millions of TV viewers and landing the CBS TV network a fine. Sir Paul, however, did nothing more racy than remove his jacket as he sang. Organisers were widely considered to be playing it safe this year by booking 62-year-old Sir Paul for his second Super Bowl show. Three years ago, he was invited to perform at the first Super Bowl after the September 11 attacks and performed his specially-written song Freedom. This time, he started off the show, at the Alltel Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida, with the Beatles numbers Drive My Car and Get Back. He then performed a mellow version of Live And Let Die, the James Bond theme he recorded with the band Wings. Finally, he closed the show with a rousing version of Hey Jude. The former Beatle resisted any temptation to refer to Janet Jackson's headline-grabbing performance last year, instead keeping banter between songs to a minimum in order to squeeze as much music as he could into his slot. The singer removed his black jacket halfway through the show - but any fans hoping for a second "Nipple-gate" were to be disappointed as he kept his red sweatshirt on underneath.
Manchester United fans wearing Eric Cantona masks will not be allowed in Selhurst Park on Saturday. United fans are planning to mark the 10th anniversary of Cantona's infamous kung-fu kick on Crystal Palace fan Matthew Simmons by wearing the masks. But Palace stadium manager Kevin Corner has warned: "If they wear them inside Selhurst Park they will be immediately rejected on safety grounds. "And no fans wearing Cantona masks will be allowed entry to the stadium." United fans had declared Saturday as 'Cantona Day' and had planned to wear masks, that were popular during the Frenchman's time as a player at the Old Trafford club. Cantona received a nine-month ban following the incident and Palace are keen to avoid an incident that would stir up ill feeling between the two sets of supporters. Four months after the Cantona incident a Palace fan, Paul Nixon, was killed prior to an FA Cup semi-final at Villa Park.
Everton defender David Weir has played down talk of European football, despite his team lying in second place in the Premiership after beating Liverpool. Weir told BBC Radio Five Live: "We don't want to rest on our laurels and say we have achieved anything yet. "I think you start taking your eye off the ball if you make statements and look too far into the future. "If you start making predictions you soon fall back into trouble. The only thing that matters is the next game." He said: "We are looking after each other and hard work goes a long way in this league. We have definitely shown that. "Also injuries and suspensions haven't cost us too badly and we have a lot of self-belief around the place."
In a locked room at the heart of Parliament there is a hive of scandal. Sex, betrayal and custody of children are all there in this affair but this time it has nothing to do with the recent troubles of David Blunkett or Boris Johnson. Few realise that Westminster in effect has its own divorce den. For sprinkled among 12 floors of archives are blow-by-blow accounts of marital break-ups - and now you can search what's there online. Until 1857, the only way in England to get a full divorce which allowed re-marriage was to obtain an Act of Parliament by proving adultery or life-threatening cruelty. The legacy is pages of testimonies used in the hearings, dating back to 1670, all recorded among the 325,000 items which fill the 12 floors of the parliamentary archives in Parliament's Victoria Tower. Most people researching their family history want to discover some tale of illicit love. This gives them the chance. Divorce by Parliament was an expensive process open really only to the rich but the records also include the testimony of maids, butlers and coachmen about their masters and mistresses. Among the records is the story of Jane Campbell, the first woman ever to divorce her husband. That happened in 1801 after she had discovered her husband, Edward Addison, had committed adultery with her sister Jessy. A transcript of evidence from Jessy's maid, Amelia Laugher, shows her telling how Addison frequently passed by her on the way to the room where she
British and Irish Lions coach Clive Woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year's RBS Six Nations Championship. World Cup winners Lawrence Dallaglio, Neil Back and Martin Johnson had all been thought to be in the frame for next summer's tour to New Zealand. "I don't think you can ever say never," said Woodward. "But I would have to have a compulsive reason to pick any player who is not available to international rugby." Dallaglio, Back and Johnson have all retired from international rugby over the last 12 months but continue to star for their club sides. But Woodward added: "The key thing that I want to stress is that I intend to use the Six Nations and the players who are available to international rugby as the key benchmark. "My job, along with all the other senior representatives, is to make sure that we pick the strongest possible team. "If you are not playing international rugby then it's still a step up to Test rugby. It's definitely a disadvantage. "I think it's absolutely critical and with the history of the Lions we have got to take players playing for the four countries." Woodward also revealed that the race for the captaincy was still wide open. "It is an open book," he said. "There are some outstanding candidates from all four countries." And following the All Blacks' impressive displays in Europe in recent weeks, including a 45-6 humiliation of France, Woodward believes the three-test
American Olympic stars Justin Gatlin and Joanna Hayes have been named the winners of the 2004 Jesse Owens Awards, USA Track & Field's (USATF) top honour. Gatlin, 22, won the closest 100m final in Games history with a career-best time of 9.85 seconds in Athens. He also won bronze in the 200m and silver in the 4x100m relay, becoming the only male athlete to win three athletics medals this summer. Hayes, 27, set an Olympic record of 12.37 in winning the 100m hurdles. Established in 1981, the Jesse Owens Awards - named in honour of the late Olympic great who won four gold medals at the 1936 Berlin Games - are presented annually to the outstanding US male and female track and field performers. The 2004 awards will be presented on 3 December in conjunction with the USATF annual meeting in Portland. "It is such a great honour to win the Jesse Owens Award," said Gatlin. "It is one of the biggest honours in track and field and it is a great end to a great year. " Hayes said: "Knowing some of the great people who have won this award before me and knowing what it represents, I feel a sense accomplishment and pride which lets me know that everything that I have worked for is and always will be worth it."
US actor Ossie Davis has been found dead at the age of 87. Davis, who was married to actress Ruby Dee, was found dead on Friday in his hotel room in Miami Beach, Florida, where he was making a film. Davis, whose 65-year career included credits as a producer, director, actor and writer for stage and screen, was also a civil rights activist. Miami Beach police spokesman Bobby Hernandez said the cause of death appeared to be natural. Davis's body was discovered by his grandson and paramedics at the Shore Club hotel in Miami Beach, where the actor had been shooting the film Retirement. Mr Hernandez said: "After gaining entry, they found Mr Davis had passed away. "The cause of death appears to be natural. According to his grandson he was suffering from heart disease." Some of Davis's best known roles included The Joe Louis Story and Gone Are the Days - a film he adapted from his own play, Purlie Victorious. He also appeared in 7 Spike Lee movies, including School Daze, Do the Right Thing and Jungle Fever. His film debut, in 1950, was in the film No Way Out, starring Sydney Poitier and Ruby Dee. Davis and Dee were married for more than 56 years and together received Kennedy Center honours in 2004 for their body of work. The Actors' Equity Association issued a statement calling Davis "an icon in the American theatre" and he and Dee "American treasures". Davis was also a prominent figure in the
The US created fewer jobs than expected in January, but a fall in jobseekers pushed the unemployment rate to its lowest level in three years. According to Labor Department figures, US firms added only 146,000 jobs in January. The gain in non-farm payrolls was below market expectations of 190,000 new jobs. Nevertheless it was enough to push down the unemployment rate to 5.2%, its lowest level since September 2001. The job gains mean that President Bush can celebrate - albeit by a very fine margin - a net growth in jobs in the US economy in his first term in office. He presided over a net fall in jobs up to last November's Presidential election - the first President to do so since Herbert Hoover. As a result, job creation became a key issue in last year's election. However, when adding December and January's figures, the administration's first term jobs record ended in positive territory. The Labor Department also said it had revised down the jobs gains in December 2004, from 157,000 to 133,000. Analysts said the growth in new jobs was not as strong as could be expected given the favourable economic conditions. "It suggests that employment is continuing to expand at a moderate pace," said Rick Egelton, deputy chief economist at BMO Financial Group. "We are not getting the boost to employment that we would have got given the low value of the dollar and the still relatively low interest rate environment." "The economy is producing a moderate
Like some drill sergeant from the past, Metal Slug 3 is a wake-up call to today's gamers molly-coddled with slick visuals and fancy trimmings. With its hand-animated sprites and 2D side-scrolling, this was even considered retro when released in arcades four years ago. But a more frantic shooter you will not find at the end of your joypad this year. And yes, that includes Halo 2. Simply choose your grunt and wade through five 2D side-scrolling levels of the most hectic video game blasting you will ever encounter. It is also the toughest game you are likely to play, as hordes of enemies and few lives pile the pressure on. Players must battle soldiers, snowmen, zombies, giant crabs and aliens, not to mention the huge, screen-filling bosses that guard each of the five levels. The shoot-anything-that-moves gameplay is peppered with moments of old-school genius. Fans of robotic gastropods should note the title refers, instead, to the vast array of vehicles on offer in a game stuffed with bizarre hardware. Tanks, jets and submarines can be commandeered, as well as cannon-toting camels, elephants and ostriches - more weaponry on offer than in an acre of Iraq. Doling out justice is a joy thanks to ultra responsive controls, and while this is a tough nut to crack, it is addictive enough to have you gagging for that one last go. And at a mere £20, Metal Slug 3 is as cheap as sliced, fried spuds, as the man says. Of course, most
A 20-year-old US man is selling advertising space on his forehead to the highest bidder on website eBay. Andrew Fisher, from Omaha, Nebraska, said he would have a non-permanent logo or brand name tattooed on his head for 30 days. "The way I see it I'm selling something I already own; after 30 days I get it back," he told the BBC Today programme. Mr Fisher has received 39 bids so far, with the largest bid currently at more than $322 (£171). "The winner will be able to send me a tattoo or have me go to a tattoo parlour and get a temporary ink tattoo on my forehead and this will be something they choose, a company name or domain name, perhaps their logo," he told the Radio 4 programme. On the online auction, Mr Fisher describes himself as an "average American Joe, give or take". His sales pitch adds: "Take advantage of this radical advertising campaign and become a part of history." Mr Fisher said that while he would accept any brand name or logo, "I wouldn't go around with a swastika or anything racial". He added: "I wouldn't go around with 666, the mark of the beast. "Other than that I wouldn't promote anything socially unacceptable such as adult websites or stores." He said he would use the money to pay college - he is planning to study graphic design. The entrepreneur said his mother was initially surprised by his decision but following all the media attention
Plans to give murderers lighter sentences if they plead guilty have been watered down. There was an outcry three months ago when the Sentencing Guidelines Council - led by Lord Woolf - published its proposals for England and Wales. It had suggested judges should reduce sentences by a third for murderers who confessed at the earliest opportunity. But that has now been changed to one-sixth, with no reduction for those killers given a "whole life tariff". At the time Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, had said the one third reduction would only be in extraordinary circumstances - for example, if people gave themselves up before their crime had even been detected. The guidelines were to recognise the need to spare victims and witnesses the trauma of going to court where possible, by allowing lighter sentences for guilty pleas and co-operation, he said. But director of the Victims of Crime Trust, Norman Brennan, accused Lord Woolf of having an "arrogant contempt for victims of crime and the law-abiding public". The National Association of Probation Officers said the move would be "political suicide". In revised proposals from the Sentencing Guidelines Council (SGC), the section on murder said possible reductions would have to be "weighed carefully" by a judge so they did not lead to "an inappropriately short sentence". Where it was appropriate to reduce the minimum term having regard to a plea of guilty, the maximum reduction would be one sixth, and should never exceed five years, it said. In a
Concessions on a bill which critics claim would allow euthanasia "through the back door" were not a political ploy, the lord chancellor has said. Ministers have been accused of panic in offering last minute changes to the Mental Capacity Bill amid chaotic scenes in the Commons on Tuesday. Lord Falconer said it was fair to criticise the late timing of the offer. He said the changes provided a solution to a very difficult issue but some MPs argue the situation is still unclear. The bill allows people to give somebody the power of attorney to make decisions on their behalf if they become too ill to decide for themselves. Ministers insist the plans would not change laws on euthanasia and would improve safeguards. Critics fear it could allow "killing by omission" through withdrawing treatment, including food and fluids. Tony Blair said he would do everything he could to meet concerns about the bill. But changes to the bill must not overturn the law set when a court ruled that doctors could withdraw artificial feeding and hydration from Hillsborough coma victim Tony Bland. "It is important we don't end up in the situation where doctors and consultants are confused about the law and may lay themselves open to prosecution in circumstances where no sensible person would want that to happen," he said. On Tuesday, the government saw off a backbench attempt to force changes to the bill by 297 votes to 203, despite rebellion by 34 Labour MPs. The revolt was
A mobile phone chip which combines a modem and a computer processor on one bit of silicon instead of two could make phones cheaper and more powerful. The specially-designed chip, developed by Texas Instruments, could drive down the cost of making mobiles capable of 3D gaming and 30-frame-a-second video. Currently, rich multimedia features tend to be on more expensive handsets. The technology, OMAP-Vox, is being tested by firms in Europe and Asia and could appear by the end of the year. Texas, which makes computer chips for more than half the world's mobile phones, said it was keen to make multimedia functions like video and gaming more affordable. "We're going to drive them down into meat-and-potatoes phones that have the largest market share," said Doug Rasor, a marketing vice president at Texas. The chip also uses much less power than conventional chips, said Texas, which means less strain on mobile battery life. More than 50 million people own a mobile in the UK, but mobile operators are keen to encourage people to move onto more sophisticated handsets that can do more. Texas is keen to cash in on the third generation (3G) of mobile technology, which offers high-speed networks for video streaming and other multimedia functions. But it faces stiff competition from the likes of Intel which is also looking to provide better chips for high-end mobiles. Competition to get people using 3G mobiles will grow in the next year as almost all of the UK's operators have now launched
The race for the Oscars entered its final stages as the deadline for voters to choose their winners passed. The 5,808 Academy voters had until Tuesday afternoon to return their ballots - any late submissions will not be included in the count. The next five days will be spent counting the voting forms and preparing the winners' envelopes. Best actor nominee Leonardo DiCaprio is to present a statuette for the first time at the LA ceremony on Sunday. The 30-year-old actor, who is nominated for playing Howard Hughes in The Aviator, will join other hopefuls such as co-star Cate Blanchett, Natalie Portman and Kate Winslet as Oscar presenters. The only people who will know the Oscar winners before they are revealed at the ceremony will be the auditors who are in charge of looking after the ballot count. After collating the results, they are responsible for sealing the results in the famous golden envelopes which will be revealed by a host of celebrity presenters at the ceremony. Former Academy Award winners Gwyneth Paltrow, Dustin Hoffman and Halle Berry will also present prizes. The event at the Kodak Theatre will be attended by 3,300 people, including some of the best-known names in film, and organisers say they expect it will be watched on television by one billion people around the world. One current concern is the torrential rain which has lashed Los Angeles for the past week, flooding suburbs and causing mudslides. It is hoped the forecast for Sunday, for cool
Animated movie Robots has opened at the top of the US and Canada box office chart, taking $36.5m (£19m) on its first weekend on release. Featuring the voices of Ewan McGregor, Halle Berry, Robin Williams and Mel Brooks, Robots follows a robot inventor who moves to a big city. Vin Diesel's family comedy The Pacifier fell to the number two spot, taking $18.1m (£9.4m). New Bruce Willis movie Hostage opened at number four with $9.8m (£5.1m). However, a recut version of Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ, which featured less violence than last year's original movie, took just $239,850 (£125,000), despite opening in 957 cinemas. The new version of the film received little publicity and the original version is available across the US on DVD. "We certainly had higher expectations than what we got," said Rob Schwartz, head of distribution for Newmarket Films, which released The Passion of the Christ. "We were trying to get the film out there, hoping it would reach an audience that it didn't quite reach the first time around. It doesn't seem to have worked out quite as well as we had hoped." Meanwhile, Will Smith comedy Hitch has become the top film at the global box office after taking an estimated $30.1m (£15.6m) over the weekend at cinemas outside North America, according to industry website Screen Daily. It has taken $65.5m (£34.1m) so far, buoyed by opening at number one in the UK last weekend and a successful run in Germany. The movie,
Another front in the on-going battle between Microsoft and Google is about to be opened. By the end of 2004 Microsoft aims to launch search software to find any kind of file on a PC hard drive. The move is in answer to Google's release of its own search tool that catalogues data on desktop PCs. The desktop search market is becoming increasingly crowded as Google, AOL, Yahoo and many smaller firms tout programs that help people find files. Microsoft made the announcement about its forthcoming search software during a call to financial analysts to talk about its first quarter results. John Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer said a test version of its desktop search software should be available for download by the end of the year. "We're going to have a heck of a great race in search between Google, Microsoft and Yahoo," he said. "It's going to be really fun to follow." Microsoft is coming late to the desktop search arena and its software will have to compare favourably with programs from a large number of rivals, many of which have fiercely dedicated populations of users. The program could be based on the software Microsoft owns as a result of its purchase of Lookout Software in early October. On 14 October Google released desktop search software that catalogues all the files on a PC and lets users use one tool to find e-mail messages, spreadsheets, text files and presentations. The software will also find webpages and messages sent
We are reaching the point where broadband is a central part of daily life, at least for some, argues technology analyst Bill Thompson. One of the nice things about being a writer is that I rarely have to go to an office to work. I can sit in a caf&#233; or a library, with or without a wi-fi connection, and research and write articles. If I am passing through Kings Cross station on my way to a meeting then I can log on from the platform. And I can spend the day working with my girlfriend Anne, a children's writer, at her house in Cambridge, sharing her wireless network. But just over a week ago I arrived at her house to find that there was no network connection. We checked the cable modem and noticed that it had no power, and when she changed the power lead it sparked at her in a way which made it abundantly clear that it was never going to talk to the internet again. She called her service provider, and they told her it would be five days before an engineer would show up with a new cable modem. This did not seem too bad, but in fact she really suffered until her connection was restored on Wednesday. With no modem installed in her computer, she had to borrow internet access from friends or use the dial-up connection on her daughter's laptop, so she had to choose between copying her files onto her USB
The UK Independence Party outspent both Labour and the Liberal Democrats in the European elections, new figures show. UKIP, which campaigned on a slogan of "Say no to Europe", spent £2.36m on the campaign - second only to the Conservatives' £3.13m. The campaign took UKIP into third place with an extra 10 MEPs. Labour's campaign cost £1.7m, the Lib Dems' £1.19m and the Greens' £404,000, according to figures revealed by the Electoral Commission on Wednesday. Much of the UKIP funding came from Yorkshire millionaire Sir Paul Sykes, who helped bankroll the party's billboard campaign. Critics have accused the party of effectively buying votes. But a UKIP spokesman said Labour and the Conservatives had spent £10m between them on the last general election. "With the advantages of public money the others have, the only way the smaller parties can get their message across is by buying the advertising space," he added.
US industrial production increased in December, according to the latest survey from the Institute for Supply Management (ISM). Its index of national manufacturing activity rose to 58.6 last month from 57.8 in November. A reading above 50 indicates a level of growth. The result for December was slightly better than analysts' expectations and the 19th consecutive expansion. The ISM said the growth was driven by a "significant" rise in the new orders. "This completes a strong year for manufacturing based on the ISM data," said chairman of the ISM's survey committee. "While there is continuing upward pressure on prices, the rate of increase is slowing and definitely trending in the right direction." The ISM's index of national manufacturing activity is compiled from monthly responses of purchasing executives at more than 400 industrial companies, ranging from textiles to chemicals to paper, and has now been above 50 since June 2003. Analysts expected December's figure to come in at 58.1. The ISM manufacturing index's main sister survey - the employment index - eased to 52.7 in December from 57.6 in November, while its "prices paid" index, measuring the cost to businesses of their inputs, also eased to 72.0 from 74.0. The ISM's "new orders" index rose to 67.4 from 61.5.
The BBC has said there are no plans in the pipeline for a new series of hit comedy Blackadder, which ended in 1989. Tony Robinson, who played the servant Baldrick, told ITV1's This Morning the show's star, Rowan Atkinson, was "more keen than he has been in the past". Robinson added he would "love" to do another series, each of which was set in a different era, ranging from the 15th century to World War I. But the BBC said on Thursday there were no plans for a comeback. In the final series all the main characters were killed off charging towards German lines after being ordered out of their trench. The poignant finale was later voted the best farewell episode of a TV series. A host of other UK actors, including Hugh Laurie, Stephen Fry and Miranda Richardson, also appeared in the show. Blackadder returned for a one-off special filmed to celebrate the arrival of the millennium in 1999. It was shown at the Millennium Dome in Greenwich before being screened on BSkyB.
Ireland captain Brian O'Driscoll has been ruled out of Saturday's RBS Six Nations clash against Scotland. O'Driscoll was originally named in the starting line-up but has failed to recover from the hamstring injury he picked up in the win over Italy. His replacement will be named after training on Friday morning. Fellow centre Gordon D'Arcy is also struggling with a hamstring injury and he will undergo a fitness test on Friday to see if he can play. Kevin Maggs would be an obvious replacement at centre while Shane Horgan could also be moved from wing. Ulster wing Tommy Bowe could also be asked to travel with the squad to Scotland as a precautionary measure. The only other change to the Ireland side sees Wasps flanker Johnny O'Connor replacing Denis Leamy. O'Connor will be winning his third cap after making his debut in the victory over South Africa last November. : Murphy, Horgan, TBC, D'Arcy, Hickie, O'Gara, Stringer, Corrigan, Byrne, Hayes, O'Kelly, O'Connell, S Easterby, O'Connor, Foley. : Sheahan, Horan, O'Callaghan, Miller, G Easterby, Humphreys, Dempsey.
Cash machine networks could soon be more susceptible to computer viruses, a security firm has warned. The warning is being issued because many banks are starting to use the Windows operating system in machines. Already there have been four incidents in which Windows viruses have disrupted networks of cash machines running the Microsoft operating system. But banking experts say the danger is being overplayed and that the risks of infection and disruption are small. For many years the venerable IBM operating system, known as OS/2, has been the staple software used to power many of the 1.4m cash machines in operation around the world. But IBM will end support for OS/2 in 2006 which is forcing banks to look for alternatives. There are also other pressures making banks turn to Windows said Dominic Hirsch, managing director of financial analysis firm Retail Banking Research. He said many cash machines will also have to be upgraded to make full use of the new Europay, Mastercard and Visa credit cards that use computer chips instead of magnetic stripes to store data. US laws that demand disabled people get equal access to information will also force banks to make their cash machines more versatile and able to present information in different ways. Todd Thiemann, spokesman for anti-virus firm Trend Micro, said the move to Windows in cash machines was not without risks. Mr Thiemann said research by the TowerGroup showed that 70% of new cash machines being installed were Windows based. Already, he said,
Car manufacturers with plants in South Africa, including BMW, General Motors, Toyota and Volkswagen, have seen a surge in demand during 2004. New vehicle sales jumped 22% to 449,603 from a year earlier, the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (NAAMSA) said. Strong economic growth and low interest rates have driven demand, and analysts expect the trend to continue. NAAMSA said it expects sales to top 500,000 in 2005. During 2004 "South Africa was one of the best performing markets internationally" for car sales, NAAMSA said. While domestic demand is set to continue to enjoy rapid growth, foreign sales could come under pressure, analysts said. The vehicle industry accounts for about 13% of South Africa's total exports. However, the world auto market has its problems and analysts warn that overcapacity and the strength of the rand could hit exports.
Northampton coach Budge Pountney has been fined £2,000 and banned from match-day coaching for six weeks for calling a referee "a disgrace". Pountney was found guilty of bringing the game into disrepute at a Rugby Football Union disciplinary hearing in London on Thursday night. Pountney criticised referee Steve Lander's performance in Northampton's defeat by Saracens on 5 February. The last two weeks of the six-week ban are suspended. Pountney pleaded guilty to the offence before a panel consisting of chairman Robert Horner, Nigel Gillingham and Jeff Probyn. The ban means former Scotland international Pountney cannot enter the playing enclosure, technical areas or go near the touchline, tunnel or players and officials' areas on the day of a game.
UK interest rates are set to remain on hold at 4.75% following the latest meeting of the Bank of England. The Bank's rate-setting committee has put up rates five times in the past year but rates have been on hold since September amid signs of a slowdown. Economic growth slowed in the previous quarter, as manufacturing output fell, while consumer confidence has slipped. There is also growing evidence that the previously booming UK housing market is now cooling. House prices fell 0.4% in October, according to the Nationwide, their biggest monthly fall since February 2001. Last month, Bank of England governor Mervyn King said that the economy had hit a "softer patch" after rapid economic growth in the first half of 2004. Richard Jeffrey, chief economist at Bridgewell Securities, said it was very unlikely that the Bank of England would put rates up again this time around. "There have been sufficient signs in the economy of a slowdown to stay the Bank of England's hand," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. However, Mr Jeffrey said he believed the slowdown in economic activity was temporary and it was dangerous to assume that rates had peaked. "I still think interest rates are going up," he said. "We are not out of the woods."
Quirky comedy Sideways was named the best film of the year by the Los Angeles Film Critics Association. The US movie also picked up four other accolades including best director for Alexander Payne and supporting actor for Thomas Haden Church. British actress Imelda Staunton has again been recognised for her role in Vera Drake, winning best actress, while Liam Neeson won best actor for Kinsey. The awards will be handed out on 13 January at a ceremony in Las Vegas. Sideways tells the story of two men who take a road trip through California's wine regions and also stars Paul Giamatti. Virginia Madsen was also named best supporting actress for her performance in the film. House of Flying Daggers, directed by Yimou Zhang, was named best foreign language film, while the animation award went to The Incredibles. Unusually, the runners-up in categories were also named with Clint Eastwood's Million Dollar Baby just missing out on the best film award. The best director runner-up was Martin Scorsese for The Aviator. A career achievement award will be handed to veteran actor and comic Jerry Lewis at the ceremony next year.
Late film star Marlon Brando is said to have repeatedly turned down his Oscar-winning role in The Godfather. The actor's friend Budd Schulberg told Vanity Fair magazine that Brando's assistant suggested he read the novel. The actor repeatedly refused, throwing the book at her and saying: "For the last time, I won't glorify the mafia". But Brando, who died last July at the age of 80, eventually took the role of Don Corleone, winning him an Oscar in 1973 which he notoriously refused. The actor sent a young woman dressed in Native American costume to refuse the award on his behalf and to draw attention to the plight of Native Americans. Schulberg told the magazine that Brando's assistant realised the film star had warmed to the idea of The Godfather role when he sported a drawn-on pencil moustache and asked: "How do I look?" His assistant, Alice Marchak, said that he looked like George Raft, an actor famed for playing gangsters on the silver screen. Every time she went to see Brando from then on, she added, he was wearing a different gangster-style moustache. Brando was asked to screen test for the role in The Godfather, as studio executives were said to be reluctant for the actor to play the part following problems on the set of Brando's previous film Mutiny on the Bounty . In fact Brando's Academy Award triumph revived his career. The actor was nominated for an Oscar the following year for his role in Bernardo Bertolucci's
A fresh crackdown on persistent truants in England has been launched by Education Secretary Ruth Kelly. Serial truants make up one in 13 pupils. Previous initiatives brought 40,000 pupils back to school since 1997, according to official statistics. Parenting contracts, penalty notices and "fast track" prosecution systems have been used to tackle what has been a stubborn problem. It is thought that nearly half a million children skip school each day. Tories say Labour's previous success regarding the issue came because it tackled the easy part of the problem by reducing authorised absence, where parents are permitted to take children out of school. Such absences are often due to family holidays. However, serial truants avoid the classroom despite government schemes costing £885m. Those missing classes are more likely to become involved in crime as well as failing academically. Measures such as parenting contracts and penalty notices were adopted by most local education authorities last term and come into force in the remainder this term. In one local education authority alone 800 parents were warned they would receive a penalty notice unless their child's attendance improved. The tough stance paid off with just 24 issued, while attendance improved in 776 cases. Truancy has been reduced by 5% at the 128 worst hit schools through the government's Behaviour Improvement Programme. This is the equivalent of 200 pupils back in classes since September. The new measures come on top of national truancy sweeps - the sixth of which will take place on Monday.
A close associate of former Yukos boss Mikhail Khodorkovsky has told a court that fraud charges levelled against him are "false". Platon Lebedev has been on trial alongside Mr Khodorkovsky since June in a case centring around the privatisation of a fertiliser firm. The pair claim they are being punished by the authorities for the political ambitions of Mr Khodorkovsky. Mr Lebedev said there were "absurd contradictions" in the case. Opening his defence, he said he could not see the legal basis of the charges he faced, which also include allegations of tax evasion. "To my embarrassment, I could not understand the file of complaints against me," he told a Moscow court. Mr Lebedev headed the Menatep group, the parent company of Yukos. Mr Lebedev and Mr Khodorkovsky, who each face a possible 10 year jail sentence if convicted, will be questioned by a judge over the next few days. Mr Khodorkovsky began his testimony last week, telling the court that he objected to the way that the "running of a normal business has been presented as a work of criminal fiction". The charges are seen by supporters as politically motivated and part of a drive by Russian President Vladimir Putin to rein in the country's super-rich business leaders, the so-called oligarchs. Yukos has been presented with a $27.5bn (£13bn) tax demand by the Russian authorities and its key Yugansk division was auctioned off to part settle the bill. The company's effort to gain bankruptcy protection in the US -
Jamie Costin should be paralysed. He says so himself in a matter-of-fact way as he recalls the car accident which occurred nine days before he was scheduled to step out into the Olympic Stadium in Athens for the 50K Walk. There is an ironic chuckle as he talks of his immediate thoughts after a lorry, driving on the wrong side of the road, had ploughed into his rental car. "I was in a lot of pain and I guessed that one of my toes was broken," says the Waterford man. "But I was thinking maybe with a cortisone injection you never know. "In my back, it felt as though all the muscles had been ripped off my pelvis but I was thinking maybe we could do something with laser therapy and ultra sound and hopefully I'd be able to race." It took over 10 hours before Jamie knew with certainty that he would not be competing in his second Olympics. "My back had been broken in two places and with one of my vertebrae, the bottom part had exploded so I'm fierce lucky not be paralysed. "I'd fractured my big toe as well which was on the brake." Jamie didn't finally arrive at hospital in Athens until some nine and a half hours after the accident. "For the first nine hours, I had no pain killers which was ridiculous in 35 degrees heat. "But once I got the scans and saw them it was a case of moving on and
The trial date for the Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative (Balco) steroid distribution case has been postponed. US judge Susan Illston pushed back a preliminary evidentiary hearing - which was due to take place on Wednesday - until 6 June. No official trial date has been set but it is expected to begin in September. Balco founder Victor Conte along with James Valente, coach Remy Korchemny and trainer Greg Anderson are charged with distributing steroids to athletes. Anderson's clients include Barry Bonds, and several other baseball stars have been asked to appear before a congressional inquiry into steroid use in the major leagues. The Balco defence team have already lost their appeal to have the case dismissed at a pre-trial hearing in San Francisco but will still argue the case should not go to trial. The hearing in June will focus on the admissibility of evidence gathered during police raids on Balco's offices and Anderson's home. Conte and Anderson were not arrested at that point but federal agents did obtain statements from them. The defence are expected to challenge the legality of those interviews and if Ilston agrees she could could reject all the evidence from the raids. Balco has been accused by the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) of being the source of the banned steroid THG and modafinil. Former double world champion Kelli White and Olympic relay star Alvin Harrison have both been banned on the basis of materials discovered during the Balco investigation. Britain's former European 100m champion
If you don't know art but know what you like, new search technology could prove a useful gateway to painting. ArtGarden, developed by BT's research unit, is being tested by the Tate as a new way of browsing its online collection of paintings. Rather than search by the name of an artist or painting, users are shown a selection of pictures. Clicking on their favourite will change the gallery in front of them to a selection of similar works. The technology uses a system dubbed smart serendipity, which is a combination of artificial intelligence and random selection. It 'chooses' a selection of pictures, by scoring paintings based on a selection of keywords associated with them. So, for instance a Whistler painting of a bridge may have the obvious keywords such as bridge and Whistler associated to it but will also widen the search net with terms such as aesthetic movement, 19th century and water. A variety of paintings will then be shown to the user, based partly on the keywords and partly on luck. "It is much more akin to wandering through the gallery," said Jemima Rellie, head of the Tate's digital programme. For Richard Tateson, who worked on the ArtGarden project, the need for a new way to search grew out of personal frustration. "I went to an online clothes store to find something to buy my wife for Christmas but I didn't have a clue what I wanted," he said. The text-based search was restricted to looking either
Smoke-free areas will save lives and improve Scotland's health, First Minister Jack McConnell has insisted. He told the Scottish Parliament on Wednesday that a "comprehensive ban" on smoking in public places would be introduced by the spring of 2006. Mr McConnell said the country's health rates were "lamentable" not least because of smoking. He said fines of up to £2,500 would be levied on employers and licences would be removed for non-compliance. Earlier, the Scottish Executive considered a range of options but agreed unanimously to introduce an all-out ban on smoking in public places. In a statement to parliament, Mr McConnell said that the licensed trade would be asked to join an expert committee prior to the ban coming into force. The health arguments far outweighed lingering public disquiet about a complete ban and claims by the licensed trade that jobs would be lost, he told MSPs. He said there would be an international marketing campaign whereby "tourists can enjoy smoke free environment and the sick man of Europe image becomes a thing of the past". "There are still national habits which hold us back - the time has come for this parliament to accelerate improvements in health," he declared. "Health rates are lamentable because of a lack of exercise, drugs abuse, excessive drinking and over-eating. "They all make us one of the most unhealthy countries in Europe, and too many smoke. "It is clear that Scotland must not be held back by poor public health - the single biggest
The US economy added 337,000 jobs in October - a seven-month high and far more than Wall Street expectations. In a welcome economic boost for newly re-elected President George W Bush, the Labor Department figures come after a slow summer of weak jobs gains. Jobs were created in every sector of the US economy except manufacturing. While the separate unemployment rate went up to 5.5% from 5.4% in September, this was because more people were now actively seeking work. The 337,000 new jobs added to US payrolls in October was twice the 169,000 figure that Wall Street economists had forecast. In addition, the Labor Department revised up the number of jobs created in the two previous months - to 139,000 in September instead of 96,000, and to 198,000 in August instead of 128,000. The better than expected jobs data had an immediate upward effect on stocks in New York, with the main Dow Jones index gaining 45.4 points to 10,360 by late morning trading. "It looks like the job situation is improving and that this will support consumer spending going into the holidays, and offset some of the drag caused by high oil prices this year," said economist Gary Thayer of AG Edwards & Sons. Other analysts said the upbeat jobs data made it more likely that the US Federal Reserve would increase interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 2% when it meets next week. "It should empower the Fed to clearly do something," said Robert
The Tories failed to hold onto power in 1974 after Liberals demanded Sir Edward Heath quit in return for co-operation. Documents released after 30 years reveal the failed negotiations by the then prime minister following the dramatic February general election. Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe appeared willing to form a coalition government. But it partly collapsed over the Conservative leader's own role, prompting the Queen to ask Harold Wilson to form a Labour government. The February 1974 general election surprised the nation when it created a hung parliament with no party in overall control. Sir Edward had gone to the country for a fresh mandate amid the spiralling economic crisis, a miners' strike and the subsequent three-day week. Labour emerged with the most seats - but its 301 MPs were 17 short of the number Mr Wilson needed to form a majority. Sir Edward, who had received more votes but had fewer MPs, believed he had the authority to remain at Number 10 providing the 14 Liberal MPs would support his government. He said the Liberals could keep out Labour in three ways: lend ad hoc support to his minority government, help draw up the government's programme, or have up to three Cabinet members in a coalition with the Conservatives. According to the documents released at the National Archives, the "friendly and easy" first meeting indicated that both Sir Edward and Mr Thorpe thought they had the makings of a deal. Mr Thorpe was in high spirits, having just led his
More lives than previously thought could be saved by cutting drink-drive limits by a third, a report says. University College London research claims cutting the limit from 80mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood to 50mg would save 65 lives a year. The findings are being published by the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety as MPs are due to vote on the government's Road Safety Bill. The bill includes changes to speeding fines but not to the drink-drive limit. The research, carried out by transport expert professor Richard Allsop, says cutting the limit would also lead to 230 fewer serious injuries on the UK's roads compared with 2003. He estimates that this would save the country £119m a year. A previous estimate, contained in a 1998 Department of Transport Document, suggested such a move could save 50 lives a year. The findings are based on the assumption that drivers who currently keep below the legal limit would continue to do so were it to be lowered and that those who tend to exceed the limit slightly would also lower their drinking. Professor Allsop said: "Reducing the limit from 80mg to 50mg can be expected to save around 65 lives a year or around half of those who die in accidents where the driver's BAC [blood alcohol content] is within 30mg of the current limit. "Only about one in 50 of those driving during weekend evenings and nights will need to moderate their drinking to achieve this and fewer still
Tony Blair has said voters will have to wait for Labour's manifesto to see if the party has plans to increase tax. The premier was responding to a challenge from Tory leader Michael Howard who said Labour would raise taxes in its post-election Budget. Mr Blair derided Tory claims they could cut £35bn in "wasteful spending" saying the party had got its sums wrong. The two political leaders clashed just days after the opening salvoes of the pre-election period. Mr Howard told MPs that "every independent expert" from the International Monetary Fund to the Institute of Fiscal Studies had suggested the "government was spending more than it is raising and a Labour chancellor would have to put up taxes". Mr Blair replied: "I think they are wrong for this very simple reason: that the Treasury forecasts on the economy have been proven right." The Tories on Monday highlighted their plans for tax cuts worth £4bn, although the specific taxes to be cut have not been announced. They also spelled out their plans for reduced government borrowing and more spending on key services. Labour and the Liberal Democrats have said the party's sums do not add up and claim it would cut frontline services. But Mr Howard said voters faced a clear choice at the next election between more waste and more tax under Labour and Tory value for money and lower taxes. The Liberal Democrats have also launched their pre-election platform, with leader Charles Kennedy saying his party was the
Peace and love have been in short supply in the Labour party in recent days. If press reports are to be believed, Alan Milburn and Gordon Brown have been at each other's throats over the contents of Labour's next election manifesto. But the pair were all smiles on Tuesday morning, as they joined John Prescott to unveil Labour's latest poster campaign. The event - at Old Billingsgate Fish Market on the banks of the Thames - was a carefully choreographed show of unity. And the surest sign yet that we are heading for a general election in the next few months. It was also one of the most bizarre photo opportunities of recent years. The first inkling something slightly odd was afoot was when - in place of the soft rock music normally chosen for such occasions - Labour's speakers crackled to life with the sound of Booker T and the MGs. Then a VW camper van trundled into view, decked out in that most mind-bending of psychedelic messages - "lowest mortgage rate for 40 years". As the side-door slid open, it looked for one glorious moment as if the Cabinet had decided to bury their differences and go on the road together, Scooby Doo-style. But, sadly, it wasn't the Cabinet who had raided the dressing-up box - just six rather ill-at-ease looking Labour students. Two were dressed as Regency dandies - to unveil a poster trumpeting "the longest period of economic growth for 200 years". Another pair of students
Foster carers are to be guaranteed a minimum allowance to help cover their costs, the government has announced. Payment levels vary from area to area, with some carers getting just £50 a week for clothes, food and other costs. Minister for Children, Young People and Families Margaret Hodge said new plans will ensure fosterers' allowances would be as fair as possible. However local authorities, which set and pay the allowances, are concerned about how the extra cash will be found. About 50,000 children live with foster families in the UK and carers have said they need more money to make ends meet. Ms Hodge said: "Foster carers must not be out of pocket when meeting the costs of caring for a looked after child - a crucial role in society. "We need to make sure that arrangements for paying foster carers are as fair and transparent as possible. "Our proposal for a national minimum rate shows we are serious about creating a better deal for foster carers and about encouraging more people to come forward and consider fostering as a worthwhile and rewarding opportunity." The government is seeking to amend the Children Bill, which passes through the Commons next week, to establish a national minimum payment. Fostering Network executive director Robert Tapsfield criticised the existing system. "There is just no logic to a system which values children differently depending on where they live. "And with a shortage of over 8,000 foster carers in England, it's not a sustainable situation to
The attorney general has again denied being "leant on" by Downing Street to make the legal case for invading Iraq. Claims a written answer on the legality of the war was drafted by Downing Street were "wholly unfounded," he insisted during stormy Lords exchanges. Lord Goldsmith said the answer represented his "genuinely held independent view" the war was legal. The text was released on the eve of a crucial Commons vote in which MPs backed the invasion of Iraq. Many Labour MPs have since indicated that the attorney general's answer played a pivotal role in their willingness to back the conflict. The government has resisted calls to publish the full advice, saying such papers are always kept confidential. In the House of Lords, the attorney general faced a call by former Tory lord chancellor Lord Mackay to now publish the "full text" of the advice - the suggestion was rejected. Another peer meanwhile, Lord Skidelsky, said not to publish the full legal opinion would "strengthen the suspicion that the the original text was doctored for public consumption, in exactly the same way as the notorious intelligence dossier on weapons of mass destruction". Last week Lord Goldsmith said in a statement: "I was fully involved throughout the drafting process and personally finalised, and of course approved, the answer." He said the answer had been prepared in his office with the involvement of Solicitor General Harriet Harman, two of his own officials, three Foreign Office officials, a QC, Christopher Greenwood and the
Prime Minister Tony Blair said it was time to draw a line under the controversy surrounding David Blunkett. The Tories and the Lib Dems have called for a second inquiry into the fast-tracking of a visa application for Mr Blunkett's ex-lover's nanny. Sir Alan Budd found a "chain of events" linked Mr Blunkett to Leoncia Casalme's indefinite leave to remain application. At the end of his Middle East trip, Mr Blair said he still admired Mr Blunkett and thought his integrity was intact. On Tuesday Sir Alan said the application for leave to remain in the UK made by Kimberly Quinn's nanny was processed in 52 days, 120 days faster than the average. But he could not find evidence to show whether Mr Blunkett's intervention was intended to give special help for his then lover's nanny - or if he was raising the case as an example of poor departmental performance. In his first comments since Sir Alan's announcement, Mr Blair told BBC News he had not yet read the report in detail. But told BBC News: "As far as I'm concerned, we have drawn a line under that." Asked if Mr Blunkett could return to frontline politics at some point, he replied: "I have made my admiration for David very clear and it remains. "He's been a tremendous colleague, he's done a great job for us, first as home secretary then as education secretary. The future is something we will have to approach in the future." The prime minister
David Blunkett - who has resigned as home secretary - built his reputation as a plain-speaking Yorkshire man. I fell in love with someone and they wouldn't go public and things started to go very badly wrong in the summer, and then the News of the World picked up the story. "I tried for three years to make something work." "Trust, plain-speaking and straight talking is something which matters so much to me as a politician and as a man that I have decided, of my own volition, to request an independent review of the allegations that I misused my position." "I don't think anyone can say I have said one thing in public and done another in private." "It would be dangerous territory if I wasn't practising what I preach which is to always accept responsibility, always accept the consequences of your actions. "None of us believe countering terrorism is about party politics." "I accepted by necessity we have to have prevention under a new category which is to intervene before the act is committed, rather than do so by due process after the act is committed when it's too late," he said in reference to new anti-terrorism measures. "Our work with the French government...has been hugely successful," said Mr Blunkett. "The number of illegal immigrants detected in Dover has dropped dramatically." "Strengthening our identity is one way or reinforcing people's confidence and sense of citizenship and well-being." "I foolishly thought as this was a celebrity edition it would
With impeccable and precisely-calculated timing, Tory defector Robert Jackson and his new Labour bosses have attempted to overshadow Michael Howard's latest announcement on taxation and spending. With just about everyone in Westminster now working towards a May general election, Mr Howard is eager to map out some clear and distinctive policies aimed at finally shifting the Tories' resolutely depressing poll showings. The big idea is his £35bn savings on waste and bureaucracy which Mr Howard has pledged to plough back into public services and tax cuts. And it was virtually certain his pledge on tax cuts was meant to be the core message from his interview on the BBC One's Breakfast with Frost programme. He and his shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin have been edging towards an announcement on this front for some months now, but without any concrete pledges. But Mr Howard announced that, of the £35bn he has earmarked from savings, £12bn will be used to plug Labour's claimed financial black hole with any left over going to tax cuts in Mr Letwin's first budget. He would not be precise, but there are already suggestions he is set to announce lifting the threshold on income tax and reforming or abolishing inheritance tax. But he did, for the first time, say there would be such tax cuts. "At this election, people will have a clear choice between Mr Blair who will waste more and tax more and the Conservative party which will give value for money and tax less". It
Eight protesters who stormed the House of Commons chamber during a debate on the Hunting Bill have been charged with disorderly conduct. The men were arrested in September after bursting into the chamber causing a hunting ban debate to be halted. Those charged included Otis Ferry, the 22-year-old son of rock star Bryan Ferry and Luke Tomlinson, 27, a close friend of princes William and Harry. They were charged under Section 5 of the Public Order Act, police said. Five of the eight men held an impromptu news conference outside Charing Cross Police Station on Monday evening, after the charges were formerly put to them. The men's solicitor Matthew Knight, said that at no time had it occurred to the men that they were committing a criminal offence. "There is no offence of trespassing in the House of Commons - it is not a criminal offence," he said. "If Parliament wanted to make entering the House of Commons chamber on foot a criminal offence it should have done so, but it can't do so retrospectively. "We are not prosecuted for that. We are prosecuted for a Public Order Act offence. We are not guilty of it." They will appear at Bow Street Magistrates' Court on 21 December, a police spokesman said. Otis Ferry, a former Eton pupil and joint leader of the South Shropshire Hunt, said: "I have no regrets. "We have done nothing wrong beyond the obvious which was to stand up for our rights and not act like
Talks aimed at averting a series of national strikes over pensions reforms will take place this weekend. Five public sector unions will hold private talks with Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott at Labour's spring conference in Gateshead. They want the government to withdraw regulations - due to be introduced in weeks - which would raise the pension age for council workers from 60 to 65. Up to 1.4m workers could take part in a strike already earmarked for 23 March. However, all sides are anxious to avoid a major confrontation in the run up to the general election, said BBC labour affairs correspondent Stephen Cape. In four days, Britain's biggest union Unison will start balloting 800,000 local government workers on strikes. Other public sector unions have pledged to follow. It is just weeks before new regulations are introduced to raise the pension age of local government workers. The five unions meeting Mr Prescott want the government to withdraw these regulations. This would allow months of tough negotiations to follow, said our correspondent. But a spokesman for Mr Prescott warned that the changes to the local government pension scheme would have to go ahead in April. Privately ministers believe this will be the "less painful" option, our correspondent added. The Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) will co-ordinate any industrial action with up to six other public sector unions. PCS leader Mark Serwotka warned last week that there could be further walkouts unless there was a government rethink. "For a government
Gordon Brown has outlined what he thinks should be the key themes of New Labour's next general election bid. He said ensuring every child in Britain had the best start in life could be a legacy to match the NHS's creation. The chancellor has previously planned the party's election strategy but this time the role will be filled by Alan Milburn - a key ally of Tony Blair. The premier insisted Mr Brown will have a key role in Labour's campaign, and praised his handling of the economy. Writing in the Guardian newspaper, Mr Brown outlined his view of the direction New Labour should be taking. "As our manifesto and our programme for the coming decade should make clear, Labour's ambition is not simply tackling idleness but delivering full employment; not just attacking ignorance, disease and squalor but promoting lifelong education, good health and sustainable communities." BBC political editor Andrew Marr said that Mr Brown's article was "a warning shot" to Mr Blair not to try and cut him out of the manifesto writing process. "It was, as always, coded and careful... but entirely deliberate," was Mr Marr's assessment. The prime minister was asked about Mr Brown's article and about his election role when he appeared on BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Mr Blair said a decision had yet to be taken over how the election would be run but the chancellor's role would be "central". Mr Blair argued that under New Labour the country had changed for the better
Plans to abolish 162 quangos have been unveiled by the Conservatives as part of their effort to show how government red tape can be cut. Six government units would also be scrapped under proposals which the Tories say would save more than £4.3bn. Among the targets are strategic health authorities and the new fair access regulator for universities. Tory frontbencher John Redwood said Britain needed a slimmer government and lower taxes to be competitive. The plans would abolish regional assemblies and other regional bodies, such as boards tackling industrial development and housing. Their powers would be returned to elected local councils or national government. The Tories say the strategic health authorities are not needed as it is better that local people, rather than officials, run hospitals and surgeries. Announcing the plans, Mr Redwood said: "Mr Blair has forgotten the interests of taxpayers, and has broken the pledges he made. "Far from improving public services, spending taxpayers' money on quangos has led only to more bureaucrats, more regulation and higher taxes." His party leader, Michael Howard, argued a change in direction was needed to get a grip on spending. "Labour are creating Two Britains: the Britain of the forgotten majority and bureaucratic Britain," he said. "In the real world, people are working harder just to stand still. They've seen their pensions knocked for six. "They're being squeezed by extra taxes. The forgotten majority are paying the price of bureaucratic Britain." The government has announced plans to cut 100,000 civil servants as
By any measure, New Yorker Dick Morris is that thing Americans love over everything else - a winner. This is the man who, some pundits believe, was almost single-handedly responsible for Bill Clinton's sensational 1992 comeback victory. But Morris is no ideologue. He has worked as election strategist for any number of Republicans as well and, more recently, politicians from Mexico to Uruguay. Now he is back in London as the UK Independence Party's not-so-secret electoral weapon after returning from the Ukraine where he helped - you guessed it - opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko. If there is one regular criticism levelled at Morris, it is that he is too ready to switch allegiances. That he enjoys the game more than the politics. So why Britain and why UKIP which, despite its recent EU election successes, is not likely to pull off a sensational victory in the looming general election. On this subject, Morris appears almost evangelical. "I was on a cruise in the Mediterranean and, coincidentally, so was UKIP leader Roger Knapman. "I had just written a piece saying how the English Channel was now wider than the Atlantic which he liked and it went from there". But what is it about UKIP that particularly attracts him? Many might think it is simply another chance to practice his art, irrespective of the politics. "I think the greatest threat to democracy in the world is not terrorism but bureaucratism". A great soundbite, but a surprise coming from a New Yorker post
Visa processing staff are sometimes expected to rule on an application every 11 minutes, MPs have said. Pressure was placed on staff to be efficient, rather than to do a thorough examination of an application, the Public Accounts Committee found. Every officer had an annual target of 8,000 applications - equivalent to 40 a day or one every 11 minutes. MPs want research into whether UK visa holders leave at the end of their stays, or vanish into the black market. Committee chairman Edward Leigh said: "There is a worrying tension between quick processing and proper control over the visas issued. "Entry clearance staff are expected to deal with a visa application in about 11 minutes which is surely too little time to look closely at the supporting documents. " The committee's report also discussed the Romanian and Bulgarian visas scandal which led to the resignation of immigration minister Beverley Hughes last year. Committee members said the Home Office had been wrong to dismiss concerns from visa staff abroad who feared the system was being abused. Investigations carried out in the wake of Ms Hughes' resignation found more than 7,000 people had entered the UK under the business visa scheme for Romanian and Bulgarian "entrepreneurs". Mr Leigh said the Home Office should now consider removing those who had not set up a valid business. A Home Office spokesman said the system had been toughened and tightened since the investigation. He added "that the traditional system of a dual decision making
Political parties cannot afford to take older UK voters for granted in the coming election, says Age Concern. A survey for the charity suggests 69% of over-55s say they always vote in a general election compared with just 17% of 18 to 24 year olds. Charity boss Gordon Lishman said if a "decisive blow" was struck at the election it would be by older voters who could be relied on to turn out. A total of 3,028 adults aged 18 or over were interviewed for the study. Mr Lishman urged the next government to boost state pension. He also called for measures to combat ageism and build effective public services to "support us all in an ageing society". "Older people want to see manifesto commitments that will make a difference to their lives," Mr Lishman said. "Political parties must wake up to the fact that unless they address the demands and concerns of older people they will not keep or attract their vote." In the survey carried out by ICM Research, 14% of people aged between 18 and 34 said they never voted in general elections. Among the over-65s, 70% said they would be certain to vote in an immediate election, compared with 39% of people under 55. Age Concern says the over-55s are "united around" key areas of policy they want the government to focus on. For 57%, pensions and the NHS were key issues, while the economy was important for a third, and tax was a crucial area
Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles are awaiting the nation's reaction after announcing they are to be married on 8 April. Mrs Parker Bowles will take the title HRH Duchess of Cornwall after a civil ceremony to be held at Windsor Castle. A Daily Telegraph poll of 1,313 people suggests two-thirds of Britons support the couple's decision to marry. But only 40% think Mrs Parker Bowles should become Princess Consort as planned after Charles becomes king. Some 47% believe she should have no title, while 7% think she should become queen. The poll also found that the majority of Britons would prefer the monarchy to miss a generation, with the Queen handing the throne to her grandson Prince William, 22, on her death or abdication. On Thursday night, Prince Charles, 56, and Mrs Parker Bowles, 57, hosted a dinner at Windsor Castle, their first public appearance since announcing their engagement. Mrs Parker Bowles said the prince went down on one knee to propose and added: "I'm just coming down to earth." She displayed her diamond engagement ring - a Royal Family heirloom - to reporters. Charles said he and his wife-to-be were "absolutely delighted". Their marriage will end years of speculation on a relationship which dates back to 1970. The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh said the news had made them "very happy". Princes William and Harry said they are "very happy" and wish the couple "all the luck in the future". The wedding will be a civil ceremony followed
Tony Blair has hailed a deal bringing Turkey a step closer to EU membership as important for the world's future "peace and prosperity". Mr Blair has been a leading advocate of Turkish membership despite controversy surrounding the idea. Leaving a Brussels summit Mr Blair said "the fact Turkey is a Muslim country does not mean it should be barred". The deal to open formal talks with Ankara came despite an EU demand for Turkey to recognise Cyprus. It was agreed the issue can be tackled at a later date but Turkish premier Recep Erdogan had to accept negotiations did not guarantee his country full EU membership. If it joins, Turkey may have to accept restrictions to limit migration by its citizens. Mr Blair said having Turkey in the EU was of "importance to the future peace and prosperity of my country, Britain, and the wider world". "We are stating a fundamental principle that the fact Turkey is a Muslim country does not mean it should be barred from Europe. "On the contrary, if it fulfils the same principles of human rights, then Muslim and Christian can work together." Under the agreement, Turkey must issue a written statement promising to sign an accord effectively recognising the Greek Cypriot government, but gives Turkey more time to sell the idea to its people. The internationally recognised southern part of Cyprus is an EU member, but Turkey, which occupies northern Cyprus, had previously insisted it would not bow to demands to recognise the country,
The Tories are to back controversial government plans to introduce ID cards. The shadow cabinet revealed its support ahead of next week's Commons vote on a bill to introduce compulsory ID. The decision follows a "tough meeting" where some senior Tories argued vociferously against the move, party sources told the BBC. The bill, which ministers claim will tackle crime, terrorism and illegal immigration, is expected to be opposed by the Liberal Democrats. They have said the scheme is "deeply flawed" and a waste of money. Sources within the Conservative Party told the BBC Michael Howard has always been in favour of ID cards, and tried to introduce them when he was Home Secretary. The party has been "agnostic" on the issue until now but had now decided to come off the fence, the Tory source said. Despite giving their backing to ID cards, the Conservatives insisted they would hold ministers to account over the precise purpose of the scheme. They said they would also press Labour over whether objectives could be met and whether the Home Office would deliver them. And they pledged to assess the cost effectiveness of ID cards and whether people's privacy would be properly protected. "It is important to remember that this bill will take a decade to come into full effect," a spokesman said. "It will do nothing to solve the immediate problems of rising crime and uncontrolled immigration." Lib Dem home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten said: "This has all the signs of Michael Howard
Plans to extend paid maternity leave beyond six months should be prominent in Labour's election manifesto, the Trade and Industry Secretary has said. Patricia Hewitt said the cost of the proposals was being evaluated, but it was an "increasingly high priority" and a "shared goal across government". Ms Hewitt was speaking at a gender and productivity seminar organised by the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC). Mothers can currently take up to six months' paid leave - and six unpaid. Ms Hewitt told the seminar: "Clearly, one of the things we need to do in the future is to extend the period of payment for maternity leave beyond the first six months into the second six months. "We are looking at how quickly we can do that, because obviously there are cost implications because the taxpayer reimburses the employers for the cost of that." Ms Hewitt also announced a new drive to help women who want to work in male dominated sectors, saying sexism at work was still preventing women reaching their full potential. Plans include funding for universities to help female science and engineering graduates find jobs and "taster courses" for men and women in non-traditional jobs. Women in full-time work earn 19% less than men, according to the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC). The minister told delegates that getting rid of "career sexism" was vital to closing the gender pay gap. "Career sexism limits opportunities for women of all ages and prevents them from achieving their full potential. "It is simply
Gordon Brown has doubled the level at which house buyers pay stamp duty to £120,000 as he put the economy at the heart of Labour's election campaign. The chancellor also unveiled a one-off £200 council tax refund for pensioners and a rise in child tax credit. Mr Brown put 1p a pint on beer, 4p on a bottle of wine and 7p on 20 cigarettes but froze petrol duty until September. The Tories called it a "vote now, pay later" Budget. The Lib Dems branded it a "sticking plaster" for the election. Tory leader Michael Howard predicted the Budget would do nothing to help Labour's "faltering" election campaign. "This government and this chancellor have run out of solutions to the problems Britain faces," Mr Howard told MPs. "Their only answer is to tax, to spend and to waste - to get people to vote now and pay later." He ended his response with an election challenge to Labour, saying "bring it on". Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy attacked Mr Brown for failing to mention the environment and for his record on social justice. "How can it be right in Britain today that the poorest 20% pay more in tax, as a proportion of their income, than the richest 20%?" he asked. Mr Kennedy criticised Mr Brown for failing to mention the "ticking bomb" of council tax revaluation, saying it was "high time" the system was replaced by a "local tax based on the ability to pay". During his 49 minute
Gordon Brown has issued a rallying cry to supporters, warning the "stakes are too high" to stay at home or protest vote in the next general election. The chancellor said the poll - expected to fall on 5 May - would give a "clear and fundamental" choice between Labour investment and Tory cuts. He told his party's spring conference the Tories must not be allowed to win. The Conservatives and Lib Dems insisted that voters faced higher taxes and means-testing under Labour. To a packed audience at Gateshead's Sage Centre, Mr Brown accused shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin of plotting cuts that were the equivalent of sacking every teacher, GP and nurse in the country. Laying into the Conservative's record in government he said: "I give you this promise - with Labour, Britain will never return to the mistakes of ERM and 10% inflation, 15% interest rates, £3bn in lost reserves, 250,000 repossessed, one million in negative equity and three million unemployed. "Never again Tory boom and bust. "This will be the central dividing line at the election, between a Conservative Party taking Britain back and planning deep cuts of £35bn in our services, and a Labour government taking Britain forward, which on a platform of stability will reform and renew our hospitals, schools and public services and, I am proud to say, spend by 2008 £60bn more." Turning to the economy, the chancellor promised to continue economic stability and growth in a third term in power. He also pledged to
A major change of direction is needed in Britain if it is to prosper, the shadow chancellor said as the Tory Party spring conference began. Oliver Letwin said the UK could not compete with other countries without the £4bn tax cuts he was promising. Tory co-chairman Liam Fox had opened the forum in Brighton with an attack on Labour's record and party leader Michael Howard is due to speak later. Tony Blair has said Conservative policies would cause economic failure. But Mr Letwin said Britain had fallen from fourth to 11th in the international economic competitiveness league. "Can this country compete, can this country prosper, unless we do something about the burden of regulation and tax on our economy?" he said. "If we are going to take on the great challenges, the challenges like those posed by the Chinese and the Indians, we have got to do something about getting down the burden of regulation and getting down the burden of tax," he said. "The fact is the very carefully costed, fully funded plans we have laid out for saving £12bn by 2007-2008 are absolutely crucial to delivering an economy that will prosper and provide people with jobs and indeed provide the public services with the money they need on a sustainable long-term basis." Mr Letwin said voting for Labour meant choosing higher taxes, borrowing and waste. Earlier, Dr Fox had said Labour's rule had been characterised by "lost trust and failure to deliver". He also attacked the government's "failure"
Tony Blair has said he looks forward to continuing his strong relationship with George Bush and working with him during his second term as president. Mr Bush's re-election came at a crucial time for a world that was "fractured, divided and uncertain", Mr Blair said. It had to be brought together, he added, saying action was needed on poverty, the Middle East and the conditions on which terrorists prey. Mr Blair said states had to work with the US to fight global terrorism. But there was a need to recognise it would not be defeated by "military might alone but also by demonstrating the strength of our common values" he added. Solving the conflict in the Middle East was the world's single most "pressing political challenge" of the present day, Mr Blair warned. The prime minister also urged Europe and the US to "build anew their alliance". "All of us in positions of leadership, not just President Bush, have a responsibility to rise to this challenge. It is urgent that we do so." Mr Blair also paid tribute to Democrat John Kerry's campaign, saying he had helped make the presidential election "a true celebration of American democracy". The election of the US president was significant for the world but particularly so for Britain because of its special relationship, he added. Earlier Tory leader Michael Howard sent Mr Bush his "warmest congratulations", saying: "We look to the president to be a unifying force for those all over the world who share
Deaths in custody have reached "shocking" levels, a committee of MPs and peers has warned. The joint committee on human rights found those committing suicide were mainly the most vulnerable, with mental health, drugs or alcohol problems. Members urged the government to set up a task force to tackle deaths in prisons, police cells, detention centres and special hospitals. There was one prison suicide every four days between 1999 and 2003, MPs said. The report, which followed a year-long inquiry by the committee, found the high death rate "amounts to a serious failure to protect the right to life of a highly vulnerable group". Many of those who ended up taking their own lives had "presented themselves" to the authorities with these problems before they even offended, the report said. It questioned whether prison was the most appropriate place for them to be kept and whether earlier intervention would have meant custody could have been avoided. Increased resources and a reduction in the use of imprisonment was needed to address the issue in the longer term, the report said. Committee chairman Labour MP Jean Corston said: "Each and every death in custody is a death too many, regardless of the circumstances. "Yet throughout our inquiry we have seen time and time again that extremely vulnerable people are entering custody with a history of mental illness, drug and alcohol problems and potential for taking their own lives." "These highly vulnerable people are being held within a structure glaringly ill-suited to meet
Tony Blair has rejected a Conservative compromise offer that could have eased the passage of anti-terror legislation. The Tories wanted a sunset clause inserted in the Anti-Terrorism Bill that would have forced ministers to revisit it in November. Mr Blair said the bill, which brings in house arrest for terror suspects, had time limiting safeguards already. The Tories say they will vote against it unless changes they want are agreed. The Lib Dems also oppose the plans. The government has already given way over the role of judges in house arrest cases. Mr Blair's refusal to accept the Tories' sunset clause proposals means that the government faces concerted opposition from all sides in the Lords. Peers begin three days of detailed deliberation on the bill on Thursday. The bill proposes "control orders", which as well as placing terrorism suspects under house arrest could mean curfews, tagging or bans on telephone and internet use. These would replace current powers to detain foreign terror suspects without trial, which the law lords have ruled against as a breach of human rights. The Tories want judicial oversight of all control orders, not just house arrest. Shadow Home Secretary David Davis told BBC Radio Four's the World at One his primary concern was potential miscarriages of justice. He said if someone was wrongly given a control order it would act as a "recruiting sergeant" for terrorists. He went on to say: "If we don't get the amendments we regard as essential, including the sunset clause,
Three Labour councillors in Birmingham were caught operating a "vote-rigging factory", an Election Court has heard. Police found the trio handling unsealed postal ballots in a deserted warehouse in the city during a late-night raid in June 2004, the hearing was told. The votes were later counted towards that month's English local elections. The men, elected to the Aston ward, deny collecting votes fraudulently. The judge presiding has indicated the whole postal voting system is under scrutiny. Deputy High Court Judge Richard Mawrey, QC told the hearing at the Birmingham and Midlands Institute the case could have potentially serious consequences for any forthcoming General Election. The special Election Court, the first in living memory to hear allegations of vote-rigging, opened in Birmingham last month. The case against Muhammad Afzal, Mohammed Islam and Mohammed Kazi is being brought by local Liberal Democrat supporters. They claim the trio benefited from the widespread misuse of postal votes during the 10 June election. Ravi Sukul, counsel for the petitioners, accused the three men of being "deeply involved" in illegal practices. Witnesses saw them carrying several bags from their campaign office, which the men drove to a warehouse on an industrial estate off Birch Road East, the court was told. The police were alerted and called to the premises. Mr Sukul said: "When (the officers) arrived there, in the middle of the night, they saw a large room with a 10ft long table and six Asian men present. "Hundreds of documents and unsealed envelopes were
Tory MP Jonathan Sayeed is to stand down on the grounds of ill health. The decision comes after Mr Sayeed survived an attempt to de-select him in a row over allegations he had profited from private tours of Parliament. The Mid-Bedfordshire MP had denied a claim that he was paid for guiding visitors around the Palace of Westminster. Conservative leader Michael Howard has now accepted the MP's resignation, it has been announced. Mr Sayeed was suspended from Parliament for two weeks last month after the Commons standards and privileges committee said his conduct had fallen "well below the standards expected". The Conservative Party had already been withdrawn the whip for a month. But his constituency association voted against a move to deselect him, with Mr Sayeed winning 173 of the 299 votes. After the vote, Mr Sayeed said only a fifth of association members had voted against him and he intended to get on with winning the election. But the vote prompted constituency association president Sir Stanley Odell to resign in protest. The Standards and Privileges Committee inquiry was launched after the Sunday Times alleged English Manner Limited charged clients for access to Westminster through Mr Sayeed. Mr Sayeed had denied the claims, saying the suspension was "unjust and wrong" but he made an "unreserved" apology to MPs in the Commons chamber. He insisted that the committee's report had contained a "few errors of fact". Mr Sayeed has been MP for Mid-Bedfordshire since 1997. He represented Bristol East from 1983
Gordon Brown has failed to tackle the "fundamental unfairness" in the tax system in his ninth Budget, Charles Kennedy has said. How was it right that the poorest 20% of society were still paying more as a proportion of their income than the richest 20%, the Lib Dem leader asked. The new £200 council tax rebate for pensioners did nothing to fix the "unfair tax", he added. The government could not go on "patching up" the system, he added. Speaking in the Commons after Mr Brown had delivered what is widely thought to be the last Budget before the general election, Mr Kennedy acknowledged that the UK was one of the most successful economies in the world. But he criticised both the chancellor and the Tories for failing to address the "ticking bomb" of council tax revaluation. He said the recent experience of Wales indicated seven million households in England would pay significantly more after revaluation. The chancellor's announcement that he was to offer a £200 council tax rebate paid by pensioner households was merely a "sticking plaster" to a much bigger problem. The Lib Dem plan for a local income tax would benefit the typical household by more than £450 a year, with half of all pensioners paying no local tax and about three million being better off. On pensions, Mr Kennedy said it was a "scandal" that the system discriminated against women who had missed making National Insurance payments when they were having children. He said a residency
Gordon Brown has issued a rallying cry, telling supporters the "stakes are too high" to stay at home or protest vote in the forthcoming general election. The chancellor said the vote - expected to fall on 5 May - will give a "clear and fundamental" choice between Labour investment and Conservative cuts. Speaking at Labour's spring conference in Gateshead, Mr Brown claimed the NHS was not safe in Conservative hands. He said Tory plans to cut £35bn tax would "cut deep into public service". To a packed audience at Gateshead's Sage Centre, the chancellor said the cuts proposed by shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin were the equivalent of sacking every teacher, GP and nurse in the country, he told activists. Laying into the Conservative's record in government he said: "I give you this promise - with Labour, Britain will never return to the mistakes of ERM and 10% inflation, 15% interest rates, £3bn in lost reserves, 250,000 repossessed, one million in negative equity and three million unemployed. "Never again Tory boom and bust. "This will be the central dividing line at the election, between a Conservative Party taking Britain back and planning deep cuts of £35bn in our services, and a Labour government taking Britain forward, which on a platform of stability will reform and renew our hospitals, schools and public services and, I am proud to say, spend by 2008 £60bn more." Turning to the economy, the chancellor pledged to continue economic stability and growth in a third term in
A senior Tory MP has criticised agriculture department Defra's "lackadaisical" approach to planning for a future foot and mouth outbreak. Public accounts committee chairman Edward Leigh was giving his reaction to a report by a government watchdog on lessons to be learnt from the crisis. The National Audit Office said Defra had improved its capacity to deal with future livestock disease outbreaks. But Mr Leigh said the department was "dragging its heels". That comment referred to the setting up of a scheme to share any future compensation costs with industry. He also said Defra had been "dreadfully slow" in paying some of its bills dating from the foot and mouth crisis. The outbreak, which began in 2001, led to the slaughter of 6.5 million animals, devastated many farms and rural businesses, and is estimated to have cost the UK up to £8bn. "Four years after the outbreak, Defra is yet to begin its planned review of some of its contractors' costs, and £40m of invoices remain unpaid," Mr Leigh said. Mr Leigh also pointed out that the introduction of an IT system to help control future outbreaks had been delayed. In November it emerged European Commission compensation amounted to just over a third of the money the UK government had hoped to get as reimbursement for the billions lost through the foot and mouth crisis. Ministers had hoped to get £900m from the European Union Vet Fund to help with animal slaughter and other costs but in the end was
An artist critical of Welsh arts funding being brought under assembly government control has denied comparing the idea with dictatorships in Russia and Germany. Shani Rhys James is worried that the Arts Council of Wales may be taken over by the Welsh Assembly Government. Culture Minister Alun Pugh said it would be "crass and ignorant" to liken a quango review to Hitler's Germany. But Ms James emphasised she had actually said artists needed freedom. The future of the Arts Council of Wales has been in question since it was announced that most Welsh quangos would eventually be abolished. It was announced last July that three Welsh quangos, education and training body Elwa, the Wales Tourist Board and the Welsh Development Agency, would be brought under assembly government control. The Arts Council of Wales may be among the next to come under the assembly government's umbrella. But Ms James, who won the £30,000 Jerwood painting prize in 2003, said arts funding should be separate from government. Ms James told BBC Radio Wales: "It's quite dangerous when you involve politicians because it's not like the health service and it's not like the railways. "Free expression is absolutely vital in a democratic society. You need distance, you do not need government interference because it could be taken the wrong way." But she said reports that she had likened the assembly government to totalitarian regimes were inaccurate. She told Good Morning Wales: "Just to put the record straight, that business in the paper where
New powers are needed to close disorderly pubs, bars and clubs for up to a week or even permanently, police chiefs have told MPs. Association of Chief Police Officers president Chris Fox said the current 24-hour closure power did not have enough impact on bad landlords. Mr Fox's comments follow the controversy over plans to allow pubs to open around the clock. He rejected critics' calls for the law change to be delayed. Instead, the new Licensing Act could help reduce drunken disorder - but only if it was properly planned, he argued. Acpo made its call for stronger closure powers in a paper for the Commons home affairs select committee. After the meeting, Mr Fox said being able to close premises for only 24 hours did not necessarily make an impact. "If it's 12.30 on a Saturday morning and you close for 24 hours there's not a lot of pain for the premises because they probably wouldn't open on Sunday anyway. "This is about getting through to the management that they can't run a disorderly house without facing some immediate sanctions." Under Acpo's proposal, the closure orders would be used only with the agreement of the local licensing authority. The new licensing laws will give police greater powers to close pubs and clubs - but only for 24-hour periods. Mr Fox said the drinks industry was currently not regulating itself. "It's making money at the cost of human misery and the public purse, and the strategic planning process has
French president Jacques Chirac has called the UK's £3bn rebate from the European Union "unjustified". Speaking after a summit meeting he said unless it was put up for discussion the EU would never be able to reach agreement on its medium term finances. Earlier Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said the UK was prepared to veto any bid to reduce the rebate secured by Margaret Thatcher in 1984. He said it remained justified because less EU farm money came to the UK. Mr Chirac told reporters in Brussels: "One can only have a reasonable budgetary balance if we put back on the table the British cheque. It can no longer be justified. It was from the past." But a UK Government official responded: "Even with the rebate, the UK pays two and a half times more than France contributes to the EU budget. Without it we would pay 14 times as much as France. "There can be no deal on future financing which does not protect the rebate." The 25-member EU is gearing up for tough negotiations on its budget plans for the period 2007-2013, with the bloc's Luxembourg presidency hoping to strike a deal at a June summit. Earlier Conservative Graham Brady said the rebate was a "crucial test" of how firmly ministers were prepared to stand up for Britain. EU Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso has indicated he wants the rebate to come to an end. Mr Straw said that as well as the veto over the rebate the
Former Labour prime minister Lord Callaghan has died on the eve of his 93rd birthday. He passed away at home in East Sussex, just 11 days after his wife Audrey died aged 91. Lord Callaghan, who leaves a son and two daughters, was the longest living former British PM in history. He entered Downing Street in 1976 after the resignation of Harold Wilson. Prime Minister Tony Blair called him a "giant" of the Labour movement. He held each of the major offices of chancellor, home secretary, foreign secretary and prime minister during his career and became Lord Callaghan of Cardiff in 1987. Chancellor Gordon Brown said the former PM would be "mourned throughout the world". "It was a commitment to public service that brought Jim Callaghan into Parliament in 1945, and while Jim rose to the top he never forgot his roots." Former cabinet colleague Lord Hattersley said his first reaction on hearing the news was "immense sadness". "It was not a major surprise - I knew what a blow the death of his wife Audrey was a few days ago," he said. "He was a decent kindly man who helped me and my generation of politicians immensely. "The Labour party and the country will be poorer without him." Conservative peer Lord Heseltine said that despite their political differences, he and Lord Callaghan became friends. "You don't get to the premiership unless you have a streak of determination," he said. "But I saw the other side of Jim Callaghan, he
At least three people from Scotland died in the tsunami disaster and a further three are on the missing list, the first minister has told MSPs. The figures came out during a statement by Jack McConnell to the Scottish Parliament on Wednesday. He formally expressed Scotland's sympathy for the victims of the Indian Ocean tidal wave which killed 150,000. Mr McConnell went on to promise that Scotland would play its part in the reconstruction effort. He said the provisional figures on the dead and lost had been provided by the police. Mr McConnell said the tragedy should persuade everyone to step up the fight against global poverty and change the world for the better. He said he was proud of the generous response of people in Scotland to the disaster appeal, which is expected soon to top £20m. The first minister also praised Scottish Water for immediately flying bottled water and five large generators to the disaster zone. The Scottish Executive has seconded 11 staff to the aid agencies. But he said Scotland was "in it for the long term" with help planned for fishing communities, for children's services, and for the aid charities. He said 2005 must be the year that Scotland showed clearly it cared for what happened to people elsewhere in the world, whether in Asia or in Africa. Mr McConnell went on to signal that the executive would play its part in the Make Poverty History campaign being mounted by a variety of aid charities, trade
Campaigners are to stage a rally calling for a Borders rail link which was closed in 1969 to be reopened. They will mark the 36th anniversary of the line closure, which ran from Edinburgh through the Borders and on to Carlisle, with a walk at Tweedbank. Anne Borthwick, of Campaign for Borders Rail, said reopening the Waverley Line would restore the area's prosperity. MSPs are considering the reintroduction of passenger rail services through Midlothian to the Borders. Campaigners have said that reopening the Waverley Line, which could cost up to £100m, would be a huge economic boost for the Borders. In 2000, Borders Council said the area's economy had suffered since the closure. Ms Borthwick said the lobby group was determined to keep the pressure on the Scottish Executive. "We are hoping that many people will join us in a march to mark the 36th anniversary of the closure of the Waverley Line," she said. "Campaign for Borders Rail is the biggest independent lobby group in Scotland and we have been lobbying tirelessly for the reinstatement of rail services to the Borders and eventually to Carlisle. "We believe that it is time for the Scottish Executive to commit to the first phase of the project by pledging to fund the line between Edinburgh and Tweedbank in the first instance and then investigate extending the line in the future." Ms Borthwick said reopening the line would be a prosperous move and protect the character of the Scottish Borders. A study in
Thousands of civil servants were on strike across Wales on Friday in protest at planned job cuts. A range of services in Wales were affected as civil servants in Wales joined the UK-wide strike. The strike, called by the Public and Commercial Services Union, was the biggest by civil servants in a decade. The action follows Chancellor Gordon Brown's announcement in July that 104,000 jobs would be cut, with around 6,000 of those expected in Wales. The worst-affected area in Wales will be the Department of Work and Pensions where 2,000 jobs are threatened. Across Wales, pickets were held by striking civil servants with protests in towns and cities including Cardiff, Bangor, Aberystwyth and Wrexham. Gordon Brown issued a defiant statement about the strike, saying the action would not affect the government's "determination" to make savings in order to increase investment in healthcare, education, transport and the fight against crime. "Our decisions mean more police, more teachers, more doctors and more nurses," he said. "We will provide help with information, relocation and retraining to help staff move into frontline work within the public sector, but we will not be diverted from these necessary changes so that we can make this essential investment." The UK-wide action hit Jobcentres, benefit agencies, pensions offices and driving test centres. The strike also affected the Welsh assembly building in Cardiff Bay, where only pass-holders were allowed in. Pickets were in place across Wales, with protests around the country. PCS Union spokesman Jeff Evans said: "In
Schools must improve the quality of citizenship lessons - or social cohesion and democracy will suffer, says the education watchdog. Independent faith schools were singled out by Ofsted chief, David Bell, for not doing enough to promote the "wider tenets of British society". Mr Bell said Muslim, Jewish and Evangelical Christian schools must be "intolerant of intolerance". Diversity "certainly must not mean segregated or separate", he said. Mr Bell's speech called for a much greater effort in all types of schools to teach citizenship - with an accompanying survey showing that young people knew little about politics and had no enthusiasm to find out more. Badly-taught citizenship lessons have previously been criticised by Mr Bell, and in a speech to the Hansard Society, he warned that it was failing to pass on an understanding of democracy, public service and shared values. He highlighted his particular concern for citizenship in the growing number of independent faith schools - which he said included about 100 Muslim, 100 Evangelical Christian and 50 Jewish schools. Mr Bell expressed concern about schools which did not teach children enough about a "common heritage" and needed to do more to promote principles of mutual tolerance and social inclusion. "I worry that many young people are being educated in faith-based schools, with little appreciation of their wider responsibilities and obligations to British society," said Mr Bell. The Ofsted chief said his forthcoming annual report would make particular reference to Muslim schools. "Many must adapt their curriculum to ensure
The government's immigration rules racially discriminated against Roma (Gypsies) seeking entry into the UK, the Law Lords have ruled. It follows a Home Office move to cut asylum claims by stopping people, mostly Roma, from boarding flights to Britain from the Czech capital, Prague. Civil rights group Liberty said it exposed "racism at the heart of the government's asylum policy". The Home Office said it had not meant to discriminate against anyone. It said it would look at the implications of the ruling, but pointed out the controls were no longer in place because Czechs are now entitled to free movement across Europe. The screening took place at the airport in July 2001, at a time of concern about the number of asylum seekers entering Britain. Those refused "pre-clearance" were effectively prevented from travelling to the UK, because no airline would carry them. Lady Hale, sitting with Lords Bingham, Steyn, Hope and Carswell, said many Roma had good reason to want to leave the Czech Republic because of persecution. But she said they were treated more sceptically than non-Roma passengers by immigration officers "acting on racial grounds". Lady Hale said immigration officers should have treated all would-be passengers in the same way, only using more intrusive questioning if there was a specific reason. Liberty said statistics suggested Roma Czechs were 400 times more likely to be stopped by British immigration officials at Prague airport than non-Roma Czechs. It took up the case of six unnamed Roma Czechs refused entry to
Eight out of 10 voters do not trust politicians to tell the truth, a new poll conducted for the BBC suggests. And 87% of the 1,000 adults quizzed by ICM for BBC News 24 said politicians did not deliver what they promised. The poll comes after Foreign Secretary Jack Straw predicted trust would be "the key choice" at the next election. Both the Tories and the Lib Dems are keen to emphasise a perceived lack of trust in Tony Blair, following his claims over Iraqi weapons. But according to the BBC poll, 61% said the issue of trust made no difference to whether or not they would vote at the next election, widely expected on 5 May. The poll also looked at what lay behind the lack of trust in politicians. Some 87% said politicians did not keep the promises they made before elections, while 92% said they never gave "a straight answer". Just under three-quarters of respondents (73%) said politicians had shown themselves to be dishonest too often. Mr Straw told activists in Blackburn on Thursday that voters would have to decide at the next election which party "best deserves" their "future trust". "That in the end is the key choice at the next election." He acknowledged that the public had lost faith in Labour, but suggested it could persuade people to "reinvest their trust with us" if the party could overcome Tory attempts to spread cynicism in politics. The Conservatives are keen to highlight the trust issue. During
"Irreversible environmental damage" will be caused by government plans to build more than one million homes in south-east England, MPs have warned. "Sustainable communities" were being promoted without a real understanding of what "sustainable" means, the Environmental Audit Committee said. It said issues like energy needs and transport were not properly addressed. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said the report was completed before new initiatives were announced. He said: "We are working across government, especially with our colleagues at Defra, to create cleaner, safer and greener communities, while protecting and enhancing the environment." The report said there was far too little attention paid to many environmental issues, including water, even though supplies in parts of the South East are already too low. Regulations designed to ensure energy-efficient buildings are too lax, and builders routinely flout them anyway, it said. Financing for improving transport was around one-twentieth of what would be required. The report was a stinging rebuke for the government and especially John Prescott's department, BBC environment correspondent Richard Black said. Chairman of the Environmental Audit Committee Peter Ainsworth MP, said: "The government's housing policy is an alarming example of disjointed thinking in an areas where joined-up policy is crucial. "I accept the need to improve housing supply but, as things stand, the principal beneficiary of housing growth will be property developers, with the environment we all depend on being the principal loser." Points raised in the report included: - No proposals to further increase housing supply should be taken
Tony Blair lied when he took the UK to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign, say the Tories. Tory co-chairman Liam Fox was speaking after Mr Blair told Labour members the Tories offered a "hard right agenda". Dr Fox told BBC Radio: "If you are willing to lie about the reasons for going to war, I guess you are going to lie about anything at all." He would not discuss reports the party repaid £500,000 to Lord Ashcroft after he predicted an election defeat. The prime minister ratcheted up Labour's pre-election campaigning at the weekend with a helicopter tour of the country and his speech at the party's spring conference. He insisted he did not know the poll date, but it is widely expected to be 5 May. In what was seen as a highly personal speech in Gateshead on Sunday, Mr Blair said: "I have the same passion and hunger as when I first walked through the door of 10 Downing Street." He described his relationship with the public as starting euphoric, then struggling to live up to the expectations, and reaching the point of raised voices and "throwing crockery". He warned his supporters against complacency, saying: "It's a fight for the future of our country, it's a fight that for Britain and the people of Britain we have to win." Mr Blair said that whether the public chose Michael Howard or Mr Kennedy, it would result in "a Tory government not a Labour
Anyone planning to move to the UK will have to pass a test to prove they can contribute to the country, Home Secretary Charles Clarke has said. He is proposing a points system similar to Australia's but would avoid the quota system planned by the Tories. Mr Clarke, who will unveil his plans on Monday, said economic migration helped the UK but "needed proper policing". The Lib Dems say they will look at his plans, but Tory Liam Fox said his party offered a "clear choice" on the issue. The Conservative Party Co-Chairman said the British electorate had a choice between a Labour government that had "done nothing for eight years and will not set a limit" on immigration and a Tory one that would impose quotas. The home secretary said, by 2008, he wanted everyone given a visa and entering the UK to have their fingerprints taken, to "ensure we can know everybody who is in the country". Speaking on BBC One's Breakfast with Frost, he said "economic migrants are of great value to this country", but stressed that proper policing was needed to ensure that they do not become a "burden on society". He said: "We will establish a system ... which looks at the skills, talents and abilities of people seeking to come and work in this country, and ensures that when they come here they have a job and can contribute to the economy of the country." The home secretary, whose five-year blueprint for immigration and
Voters will have a clear choice between the politics of fear and the politics of hope in the next general election, said Charles Kennedy. In his New Year message the Liberal Democrat leader said Labour and the Conservatives were united in relying on fear and "populist scares". He said his party was the one of hope and was ready for a 2005 poll. On the Asian tsunami he said it had been "very heartening" to learn of the generosity being shown by Britons. Mr Kennedy said his thoughts were with all those caught up in the disaster, which had dominated the Christmas and New Year period. At home he said many people were turning to the Liberal Democrats as they became disheartened with the politics of the other two main parties. The general election would be a three-party struggle, as the Conservative party "fades away" as a national force and the Liberal Democrats challenge Labour in its heartlands, he said. "A clear division is emerging in British politics - the politics of fear versus the politics of hope. "Labour is counting on the politics of fear, ratcheting up talk of threats, crime and insecurity. While the Conservatives are re-working their populist scares about asylum and the European 'menace'," he said. He said the government was using this climate of fear to try to strip away civil liberties. It was already using detention without trial at Belmarsh Prison, ignoring a recent Law Lords judgement that this contravenes basic human rights, he
The question to be asked in the referendum on the EU Constitution has been unveiled by the government. It will be: "Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty establishing a constitution for the European Union?" The constitution will be incorporated into UK law if there is a yes vote in the referendum, expected in 2006. Critics say the constitution is a further step towards a federal Europe, but advocates say it ensures effective operation of the enlarged 25-state EU. "If we reject this treaty, Britain will be isolated and weak in Europe," said Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, who along with the rest of the Cabinet, will back a "yes" vote. Patriots by definition wanted the UK to be prosperous at home and strong and influential abroad, Mr Straw said. "Our role as a leading member of the EU is a crucial part of securing that." Conservative shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram said the referendum question "seems straightforward". But he accused the government of trying to confuse the issue by putting the EU referendum question in the same bill as the ratification of the constitution, when they should be treated as "two separate issues". Despite this "underhand trick," the referendum bill stood "no chance of becoming law before the election," he added. "This is Tony Blair's cheap gesture to the pro-constitution lobby while he runs scared of a debate on Europe he knows he cannot win." Neil O'Brien, director of anti-constitution group Vote No, said: "The reality is that the government
The government must act quickly on the Law Lords' ruling that detention of foreign terror suspects without trial is unlawful, Mary Robinson has said. The former UN commissioner for human rights and Irish president told Radio 4's Today the government's response would be scrutinised internationally. "It would be very troubling if the government did not accept the judgement and then work within it," she said. Home Secretary Charles Clarke has said detainees will not be freed at present. Speaking to Parliament on his first day in office as home secretary following David Blunkett's resignation, Mr Clarke said: "I will be asking Parliament to renew this legislation in the New Year. "In the meantime, we will be studying the judgement carefully to see whether it is possible to modify our legislation to address the concerns raised by the House of Lords." Mrs Robinson said the Law Lords' ruling was "in line with international legal opinion" and praised their "very decisive" eight to one majority. "What the Law Lords did was acknowledge the role of the government, but say that there had been a disproportionate use, that it amounted to executive detention and it was discriminatory because it didn't apply to British citizens," she said. Mrs Robinson warned that a lack of action by the British government could lead to further action in legal arenas such as the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. "If the government were not to accept this ruling then there is further redress, including possible damages
The UK' opposition Conservatives have unveiled plans to introduce health checks for immigrants if they win the General Election. Here's a guide to the plan: People coming to live and work in Britain from outside the EU. If they plan to stay six months or more and are from a country with lots of TB, they would have to have a chest x-ray and further tests if appropriate. All people from outside the European Union who want to stay a year or more will have to undergo a full medical. Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and HIV. A positive test for TB would automatically mean visa applications being turned down. All other conditions would be dealt with on a case by case basis. People would have to prove they have an acceptable standard of health and are unlikely to be a danger to public health in the UK, or impose significant costs or demands on the NHS. They would also, if appropriate, have to be able to undertake the work or study they applied to come here for. People coming to Britain for less than six months would not be medically tested unless they intended to work in health care, childcare or teaching. Children and pregnant women wanting to live in Britain permanently would not have to have a chest X-ray for TB. Under 16s would not face tests for hepatitis and HIV. The Tories say people fleeing persecution will not be denied sanctuary in Britain because of poor health. However, they
Microsoft has warned PC users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in Windows programs. In its monthly security bulletin, it flagged up eight "critical" security holes which could leave PCs open to attack if left unpatched. The number of holes considered "critical" is more than usual. They affect Windows programs, including Internet Explorer (IE), media player and instant messaging. Four other important fixes were also released. These were considered to be less critical, however. If not updated, either automatically or manually, PC users running the programs could be vulnerable to viruses or other malicious attacks designed to exploit the holes. Many of the flaws could be used by virus writers to take over computers remotely, install programs, change, and delete or see data. One of the critical patches Microsoft has made available is an important one that fixes some IE flaws. Stephen Toulouse, a Microsoft security manager, said the flaws were known about, and although the firm had not seen any attacks exploiting the flaw, he did not rule them out. Often, when a critical flaw is announced, spates of viruses follow because home users and businesses leave the flaw unpatched. A further patch fixes a hole in Media Player, Windows Messenger and MSN Messenger which an attacker could use to take control of unprotected machines through .png files. Microsoft announces any vulnerabilities in its software every month. The most important ones are those which are classed as "critical". Its latest releases came the week
Leading British computer games maker Peter Molyneux has been made an OBE in the New Year Honours list. The head of Surrey's Lionhead Studios was granted the honour for services to the computer games industry. Mr Molyneux has been behind many of the ground-breaking games of the last 15 years such as Populous, Theme Park, Dungeon Keeper and Black and White. He is widely credited with helping to create and popularise the so-called god-game genre. Speaking to the BBC News website Mr Molyneux said receiving the honour was something of a surprise. It's come completely out of the blue," he said, "I never would have guessed that I'd have that kind of honour." He said he was surprised as much because, not too long ago, many people thought computer gaming was a fad. "It was thought to be like skateboarding," he said, "a craze that everyone thought would go away." Now, he said, the gaming world rivals the movie industry for sales and cultural influence. "Britain plays a big part in it," he said. "It's one of the founding nations that made the industry what it is." Mr Molyneux has been a pivotal figure in the computer games industry for almost 20 years. His career started at Bullfrog Studios which in 1987 produced Populous one of the first God-games. The title gave players control over the lives a small population of computerised people. Mr Molyneux said that his involvement with the games industry started almost by accident as back in
The first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the US. New Yorker William Trowbridge and Texan Michael Chicoine have pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music, movies and software. The two men faced charges following raids in August on suspected pirates by the FBI. The pair face jail terms of up to five years and a $250,000 (£130,000) fine. In a statement the US Department of Justice said the two men operated the central hubs in a piracy community organised across the Direct Connect peer-to-peer network. The piracy group called itself the Underground Network and membership of it demanded that users share between one and 100 gigabytes of files. Direct Connect allows users to set themselves up as central servers that act as co-ordinating spots for sharers. Users would swap files, such as films and music, by exchanging data over the network. During its investigation FBI agents reportedly downloaded 84 movies, 40 software programs, 13 games and 178 "sound recordings" from the five hubs that made up the larger piracy group. The raids were organised under the umbrella of Operation Digital Gridlock which was aimed at fighting "criminal copyright theft on peer-to-peer networks". In total, six raids were carried out in August. Five were on the homes of suspected copyright thieves and one on a net service firm. The Department of Justice said that both men pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit felony copyright infringement. They also
The old-fashioned audio tour of historical places could soon be replaced with computer-generated images that bring the site to life. A European Union-funded project is looking at providing tourists with computer-augmented versions of archaeological attractions. It would allow visitors a glimpse of life as it was originally lived in places such as Pompeii. It could pave the way for a new form of cultural tourism. The technology would allow digital people and other computer-generated elements to be combined with the actual view seen by tourists as they walk around an historical site. The Lifeplus project is part of the EU's Information Society Technologies initiative aimed at promoting user-friendly technology and enhancing European cultural heritage. Engineers and researchers working in the Europe-wide consortium have come up with a prototype augmented-reality system. It would require the visitor to wear a head-mounted display with a miniature camera and a backpack computer. The camera captures the view and feeds it to software on the computer where the visitor's viewpoint is combined with animated virtual elements. At Pompeii for example, the visitor would not just see the frescos, taverns and villas that have been excavated, but also people going about their daily life. Augmented reality has been used to create special effects in films such as Troy and Lord of the Rings and in computer gaming. "This technology can now be used for much more than just computer games," said Professor Nadia Magnenat-Thalman of the Swiss research group MiraLab. "We are, for the first time,
An organisation has been launched to encourage disabled people to get involved in all aspects of motorsport, which is now increasingly possible thanks to technological innovations. The Motorsport Endeavour Club left the starting grid yesterday at the Autosport International 2005 show at Birmingham's NEC, with several technologies to adapt vehicles on display. Motorcycle racer, Roy Tansley, from Derby developed his electronic sequential gear changer following an accident which resulted in part of his left leg being amputated. "I needed to find a way of changing gear and generally you do that with your left leg," Mr Tansley told the BBC News website. "In simple terms, I needed to invent a left foot - initially it was quite a Heath Robinson device." Mr Tansley had to argue his case to be allowed to continue competing with motorcycle racing's governing body, the Autocycle Union. "At that time they wouldn't let any amputee race at all, but eventually they told me I could have a licence as long as I raced sidecars." Mr Tansley's invention, the Pro-Shift, is designed to work with Hewland gearboxes which are widely used in motorcycle racing. In addition to helping disabled riders to compete, Mr Tansley reckons that the Pro-Shift saves at least 20 seconds per lap when he competes in the Isle of Man TT. As a result, there has been considerable interest in the product from other riders keen to improve their performance. "I'm not prejudiced, I'll sell to able-bodied people if I have to!" he
A Scottish firm is looking to attract web surfers with a search engine that reads out results. Called Speegle, it has the look and feel of a normal search engine, with the added feature of being able to read out the results. Scottish speech technology firm CEC Systems launched the site in November. But experts have questioned whether talking search engines are of any real benefit to people with visual impairments. The Edinburgh-based firm CEC has married speech technology with ever-popular internet search. The ability to search is becoming increasingly crucial to surfers baffled by the huge amount of information available on the web. According to search engine Ask Jeeves, around 80% of surfers visit search engines as their first port of call on the net. People visiting Speegle can select one of three voices to read the results of a query or summarise news stories from sources such as the BBC and Reuters. "It is still a bit robotic and can make a few mistakes but we are never going to have completely natural sounding voices and it is not bad," said Speegle founder Gordon Renton. "The system is ideal for people with blurred vision or for those that just want to search for something in the background while they do something else. "We are not saying that it will be suitable for totally blind people, although the Royal National Institute of the Blind (RNIB) is looking at the technology," he added. But Julie Howell, digital policy manager at
Net users are being told to avoid a scam website that claims to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victims. The site looks plausible because it uses an old version of the official Disasters Emergency Committee webpage. However, DEC has no connection with the fake site and says it has contacted the police about it. The site is just the latest in a long list of scams that try to cash in on the goodwill generated by the tsunami disaster. The link to the website is contained in a spam e-mail that is currently circulating. The message's subject line reads "Urgent Tsunami Earthquake Appeal" and its text bears all the poor grammar and bad spelling that characterises many other phishing attempts. The web address of the fake site is decuk.org which could be close enough to the official www.dec.org.uk address to confuse some people keen to donate. Patricia Sanders, spokeswoman for the Disaster Emergency Committee said it was aware of the site and had contacted the Computer Crime Unit at Scotland Yard to help get it shut down. She said the spam e-mails directing people to the site started circulating two days ago shortly after the domain name of the site was registered. It is thought that the fake site is being run from Romania. Ms Sanders said DEC had contacted US net registrars who handle domain ownership and the net hosting firm that is keeping the site on the web. DEC was going to push for all cash donated
The Mac mini has been welcomed by Apple fans, industry experts and PC users. The release of the tiny, low-cost machine is seen as a good move for Apple which currently has a small share of the desktop computer market. Mac watchers and some analysts say the Mac mini will go a long way to help Apple appeal to the mass of consumers. They speculate that the Mac mini will be bought by iPod owners and those wanting an easy-to-use and administer second home computer. "It's the bravest move they have made yet," said Jonny Evans, news editor at Macworld magazine. Mr Evans said the combination of low cost, small size and huge numbers of iPod users could make it a big success. He thought that the machine would appeal to those that like Apple technology but who before now have balked at paying high prices for its hardware. "It's deeply affordable," he said. "Plus you know that you do not get viruses or all of the associated problems." Already, he said, PC owning friends had declared that they would be buying one. Interest in the new products launched at Macworld expo was so strong that websites for Apple's store and the show struggled to cope with demand. According to response statistics gathered by Netcraft many visiting the Apple store in the wake of Mr Jobs' speech suffered lengthy response times. The Macworld Expo site was completely overwhelmed and went offline. "I think fundamentally it's a good idea because it's
The net search giant Google has launched a search service that lets people look for TV programmes. The service, Google Video beta, searches closed caption information that comes with programmes. It only searches US channel content currently. Results list programmes with still images and text from the point where the search phrase was spoken. It should expand over time to include content from more channels, said a Google spokesperson. The first version of the service is part of Google's expanding efforts to be a ubiquitous search engine for people to find what they want on the web and beyond. "We think TV is a big part of people's lives," said Jonathan Rosenberg, Google's vice president of product management. "Ultimately, we would like to have all TV programming indexed." Google Video has been indexing US-based programmes from PBS, the NBA, Fox News, and C-SPAN since December. But there were few clues from Google about when more global broadcasters would be included. "Over time, we plan to increase the number of television channels and video content available via Google Video but don't have more product details to share with you today," a Google spokesperson told the BBC News website. The results thrown up by the search will also include programme and episode information like channel, date and time. It also lets people find the next time and channel where a programme will aired locally using a US zip code search function. Rival search engine Yahoo has been developing a similar type of
Two UK gamers are about to embark on a world tour as part of the most lucrative-ever global games tournament. Aaron Foster and David Treacy have won the right to take part in a tournament offering $1m in total prize money. The cash will be handed out over 10 separate competitions in a continent-hopping contest organised by the Cyberathlete Professional League. As part of their prize the pair will have their travel costs paid to ensure they can get to the different bouts. The CPL World Tour kicks off in mid-February and the first leg will be in Istanbul. All ten bouts of the tournament will be played throughout 2005, each one in a different country. At each stop $50,000 in prize money will be up for grabs. The tournament champion for each leg of the CPL World Tour will walk away with a $15,000 prize. The winner of the grand final will get a prize purse of $150,000 from a total pot of $500,000. Winners of each stage of the tour automatically get a place at the next stop. The world tour stops are open to any keen gamer that registers. Online registration for the first stop opens this weekend. Some pro-players are winning a spot at the tour destinations through qualifying events organised by CPL partners. Winners at these qualifiers get seeded higher in the elimination parts of each tournament. Mr Foster and Mr Treacy get the chance to attend the World Tour as members of the UK's
Web logs or blogs are everywhere, with at least an estimated five million on the web and that number is set to grow. These online diaries come in many shapes and styles, ranging from people willing to sharing their views, pictures and links, to companies interested in another way of reaching their customers. But this year the focus has been on blogs which cast a critical eye over news events, often writing about issues ignored by the big media or offering an eye-witness account of events. Most blogs may have only a small readership, but communication experts say they have provided an avenue for people to have a say in the world of politics. The most well-known examples include Iraqi Salam Pax's accounts of the US-led war, former Iranian vice-president Mohammad Ali Abtahi exclusive insight into the Islamic Republic's government, and the highs and lows of the recent US election campaign. There are already websites pulling together these first-hand reporting accounts heralded by blogs, like wikinews.com, launched last November. The blogging movement has been building up for many years. Andrew Nachison, Director of the Media Center, a US-based think-tank that studies media, technology and society, highlights the US presidential race as a possible turning point for blogs. "You could look at that as a moment when audiences exercised a new form of power, to choose among many more sources of information than they have never had before," he says. "And blogs were a key part of that transformation." Among them
Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) will go on sale in Japan on 12 December. The long-awaited handheld game playing gadget will cost about 19,800 yen (145 euros) when it hits the shelves. At launch 21 games will be available for the PSP, including Need for Speed, Ridge Racer, Metal Gear Acid and Vampire Chronicle. Sony has not yet announced when the PSP will be available in Europe and the US, but analysts expect it to debut in those territories in early 2005. Fifa 2005 is back at the top of the UK games charts, a week after losing it to rival Pro Evolution Soccer 4. Konami's Pro Evo dropped only one place to two, while the only new entry in the top 10 was another football title, LMA Manager 2005, in at number seven. Tony Hawk's Underground 2 held its own at three, while Star Wars Battlefront inched up to four places to four. There was good news for Disney, with the spin-off from the Shark's Tale film moving up the charts into number eight. Fans of the Gran Turismo series in Europe are going to have to wait until next year for the latest version. Sony has said that the PAL version of GT4 will not be ready for Christmas. "The product is localised into 13 different languages across the PAL territories, therefore the process takes considerably longer than it does in Japan," it said. Gran Turismo 4 for the PlayStation 2 is still expected to be released in Japan
The BBC News website takes a look at how games on mobile phones are maturing. A brief round-up follows but you can skip straight to the reviews by clicking on the links below. Part two will follow on Monday. Reviews of Call of Duty, Splinter Cell - Pandora Tomorrow, Lord of the Rings and Pocket Kingdom will follow on Monday If you think of Snake when some mentions "mobile games" then you could be in for a bit of a surprise. This is because mobile games have come a long way in a very short time. Even before Nokia's N-Gage game phone launched in late 2003, many mobile operators were realising that there was an audience looking for something to play on their handset. And given that many more people own handsets than own portable game playing gadgets such as the GameBoy it could be a very lucrative market. That audience includes commuters wanting something to fill their time on the way home, game fans looking for a bit of variety and hard core gamers who like to play every moment they can. Life for all these types of player has got immeasurably better in the last year as the numbers of titles you can download to your phone has snowballed. Now sites such as Wireless Gaming Review list more than 200 different titles for some UK networks and the ranges suit every possible taste. There are ports of PC and arcade classics such as Space Invaders, Lunar Lander and
The world's dwindling panda population is getting a helping hand from a wireless internet network. The Wolong Nature Reserve in the Sichuan Province of southwest China is home to 20% of the remaining 1,500 giant pandas in the world. A broadband and wireless network installed on the reserve has allowed staff to chronicle the pandas' daily activities. The data and images can be shared with colleagues around the world. The reserve conducts vital research on both panda breeding and bamboo ecology. Using the network, vets have been able to observe how infant pandas feed and suggest changes to improve the tiny cubs' chances of survival. "Digital technology has transformed the way we communicate and share information inside Wolong and with the rest of the world," said Zhang Hemin, director of the Wolong Nature Reserve. "Our researchers now have state-of-the-art digital technology to help foster the panda population and manage our precious surroundings." The network has been developed by Intel, working closely with the staff at Wolong. It includes a 802.11b wireless network and a video monitoring system using five cameras to observe pandas around the clock. Before the new infrastructure arrived at the panda park, staff walked or drove to deliver floppy disks across the reserve. Infant panda health was recorded on paper notebooks and research teams in the field had little access to the data. To foster cultural links across the globe, a children's learning lab has been incorporated in the network, in collaboration with Globio (Federation for Global
Multimedia mobile phones are finally showing signs of taking off, with more Britons using them to go online. Figures from industry monitor, the Mobile Data Association (MDA), show the number of phones with GPRS and MMS technology has doubled since last year. GPRS lets people browse the web, access news services, mobile music and other applications like mobile chat. By the end of 2005, the MDA predicts that 75% of all mobiles in the UK will be able to access the net via GPRS. The MDA say the figures for the three months up to 30 September are a "rapid increase" on the figure for the same time the previous year. About 53 million people own a mobile in the UK, so the figures mean that half of those phones use GPRS. GPRS is often described as 2.5G technology - 2.5 generation - sitting between 2G and 3G technology, which is like a fast, high-quality broadband internet for phones. With more services being offered by mobile operators, people are finding more reasons to go online via their mobile. Downloadable ringtones are still proving highly popular, but so is mobile chat. BandAid was the fastest ever-selling ringtone this year, according to the MDA, and chat was given some publicity when Prime Minister Tony Blair answered questions through mobile text chat. Multimedia messaging services also looked brighter with 32% of all mobiles in the UK able to send or receive picture messages. This is a 14% rise from last September's figures. But
The odds are that when you fire up your browser, you go straight to your favourite search engine, rather than type in a web address. Some may see this as the height of laziness, but in an era of information overload, search has become a vital tool in navigating the net. It is symptomatic of how the way we use the internet is changing. And as Google has shown, there is money in offering a service that people cannot live without. There is no shortage of companies vying for the loyalty of web searchers, offering a wealth of different services and tools to help you find what you want. Over the past 12 months, giants of the technology world such as Microsoft and Yahoo have sought to grab a slice of the search action. "User experience has contributed to people searching more," said Yonca Brunini of Yahoo. As people become more familiar with the internet, they tend to spend more time online and ask more queries, she said. "The other second thing is broadband," Ms Brunini told the BBC News website. "This will do to internet what colour has done to TV." But search is hardly a new phenomenon. It has been around since the early days of the net. Veteran surfers will remember old-timers like Hotbot and Altavista. "Search was always important," said Urs Holzle, Google vice-president of operations. "We trumpeted that in 1999. It is even truer now as there are more users and more information." "People didn't
Video games could soon be transplanted from their natural habitat to the more academic atmosphere of the classroom. With violent titles continuing to top the charts, gaming and learning have not always sat well together but the tide could be beginning to turn. Recent research by the London Institute of Education concluded that games have a valid place in the classroom. "Games teach life skills such as decision making, problem solving," said Martin Owen, at Futurelab. Mr Owen said games could also help children make quick assessments of situations and learning by trial and error. Futurelab is a non-profit organisation looking at ways of using technology for innovative learning. Most game firms are too busy turning a profit in the lucrative commercial market to consider developing games for use in schools but Liverpool-based games firm Lateral Visions saw a gap in the market. "Learning games were somewhat old-fashioned and we didn't see anyone else doing what we wanted to do," said Dr Carl Gavin, managing director of Lateral Visions. The company set out to write something that had all the look and feel of a commercial game but with an educational and learning element. The result is Racing Academy, a massively multiplayer car racing game, which requires not only a thirst for speed but a working knowledge of physics and engineering as well. It is being used by Futurelab to test the viability of using gaming in the classroom. "We are keen to find out whether alongside learning a game,
First it was the humble home video, then it was the DVD, and now Hollywood is preparing for the next revolution in home entertainment - high-definition. High-definition gives incredible, 3D-like pictures and surround sound. The DVD disks and the gear to play them will not be out for another year or so, and there at are still a number of issues to be sorted out. But when high-definition films do come out on the new format DVDs, it will profoundly change home entertainment. For Rick Dean, director of business development for digital content company THX, a high-definition future is an exciting prospect. He has worked on the Star Wars DVD trilogy, Finding Nemo, The Incredibles and Indiana Jones. "There was a time not so long ago when the film world and the video world were two completely separate worlds," he told the BBC News website. "The technology we are dealing with now means they are very much conjoined. "The film that we see in theatres is coming from the same digital file that we take the home video master," he says. But currently, putting a master feature film onto DVD requires severe compression because current DVD technology cannot hold as much as high-definition films demand. "As much as you compress the picture data rate wise, you also take qualities away from the picture that we fight so hard to keep in the master," he explains. "I would love to be able to show people what projects that we worked on
Computer games could enhance learning and have a legitimate place in the classroom, say researchers. Academics from the Institute of Education at London University found that "games literacy" was a key skill for youngsters. As well as being used in different areas of the curriculum, games are a legitimate area of study in their own right, researchers say. Pupils should also be able to create their own games, they say. "Like all games, computer and video games entertain while promoting social development, and playing and talking about games is an important part of young people's lives," said project manager Caroline Pelletier. "Games literacy is a way of investigating how games are means of expression and representation, just like writing or drawing," she said. The researchers conducted two studies into the impact of games on education, the first looking at how they can be used in different curriculum subjects to enhance learning. Researchers found that girls were often excluded from the male-dominated world of game playing. "Without first-hand experience of how much fun a game can be, they have little motivation to play and remain disengaged from an engrossing and sociable activity," said research fellow Diane Carr. The second project looked at how games can be integrated into media education and concluded that writing games should be a core part of studying them. Sixth-form teacher Barney Oram already teaches computer games alongside the more traditional study of film, TV and popular music at the A-level course he runs at Long Road
Mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales, according to research from technology analysts Gartner. More than 674 million mobiles were sold last year globally, said the report, the highest total sold to date. The figure was 30% more than in 2003 and surpassed even the most optimistic predictions, Gartner said. Good design and the look of a mobile, as well as new services such as music downloads, could go some way to pushing up sales in 2005, said analysts. Although people were still looking for better replacement phones, there was evidence, according to Gartner, that some markets were seeing a slow-down in replacement sales. "All the markets grew apart from Japan which shows that replacement sales are continuing in western Europe," mobile analyst Carolina Milanesi told the BBC News website. "Japan is where north America and western European markets can be in a couple of years' time. "They already have TV, music, ringtones, cameras, and all that we can think of on mobiles, so people have stopped buying replacement phones." But there could be a slight slowdown in sales in European and US markets too, according to Gartner, as people wait to see what comes next in mobile technology. This means mobile companies have to think carefully about what they are offering in new models so that people see a compelling reason to upgrade, said Gartner. Third generation mobiles (3G) with the ability to handle large amounts of data transfer, like video, could drive people into upgrading
Gambling is hugely popular, especially with tech-savvy criminals. Many extortionists are targeting net-based betting firms and threatening to cripple their websites with deluges of data unless a ransom is paid. But now deep defences are being put in place by some of the UK's biggest net firms to stop these attacks. Increasing numbers of attacks and the huge amounts of data being used to try to bump a site off the web are prompting firms to adopt the measures. "Net firms are realising that it's not just about anti-virus and firewalls," said Paul King, chief security architect at Cisco. "There are more things that can be done in the network to protect data centres." Mr King said the only way to properly combat these so-called Distributed Denial-of-Service attacks was with intelligent net-based systems. Many of the gambling sites suffering DDoS attacks are in offshore data and hosting centres, so any large scale data flood could knock out access to many more sites than just the one the criminals were targeting, said Mr King. This overspill effect was only likely to grow as attacks grow in size and scale. Malcolm Seagrave, security expert at Energis, said the most common types of attacks hit sites with 10 megabytes of data over short periods of time. Bigger attacks sending down 200 megabytes of traffic or more were rarely seen, he said. "It does feel like they are turning the dial because you see this traffic gradually growing," he said. So far there have
Microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software. The spyware tool was only released by Microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. Stephen Toulouse, a security manager at Microsoft, said the malicious program was called Bankash-A Trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. Microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. The program attempts to disable or delete Microsoft's anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users. It may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users' keystrokes. Microsoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. Earlier this week, Microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker Sybari Software to improve its security in its Windows and e-mail software. Microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. The anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use, causes advert pop-ups and slow a PC's performance.
Thousands of technology lovers and industry experts have gathered in Las Vegas for the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES). The fair showcases the latest technologies and gadgets that will hit the shops in the next year. About 50,000 new products will be unveiled as the show unfolds. Microsoft chief Bill Gates is to make a pre-show keynote speech on Wednesday when he is expected to announce details of the next generation Xbox. The thrust of this year's show will be on technologies which put people in charge of multimedia content so they can store, listen to, and watch what they want on devices any time, anywhere. About 120,000 people are expected to attend the trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet. Highlights will include the latest trends in digital imaging, storage technologies, thinner flat screen and high-definition TVs, wireless and portable technologies, gaming, and broadband technologies. The show also includes several speeches from key technology companies such as Intel, Microsoft, and Hewlett Packard among others. "The story this year remains all about digital and how that is completely transforming and revolutionising products and the way people interact with them," Jeff Joseph, from the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) told the BBC News website. "It is about personalisation - taking your MP3 player and creating your own playlist, taking your digital video recorder and watch what you want to watch when - you are no longer at the whim of the broadcasters." Consumer electronics and gadgets had a
Microsoft has given game makers a glimpse of the new Xbox 2 console. Some details of the Xbox's performance and what gaming will be like with the device were given at the annual Game Developers Conference in the US. Xbox frontman J. Allard said the console looked set to be capable of one trillion calculations per second. Also all titles for the new Xbox will have the same interface to make it easy to play online and buy extras for characters or other add-ons for games. Microsoft is saving the official unveiling of the Xbox 2, codenamed Xenon, for the E3 show in May and the device could be on shop shelves by November. However, during his keynote speech at GDC Mr Allard, who heads development of game-making tools for the console, gave a glimpse into how some of its core software will work. He said gaming was entering a "high-definition" era that demanded detailed and convincing graphics that could adequately compete with the HDTV people were starting to watch as well as the HD DVDs that will soon start to appear. Industry watchers took this to mean that the Xbox 2 will push for HDTV quality graphics as standard as well as multi-channel audio to give gamers an authentic experience. Mr Allard said Microsoft had to work hard to ensure that it was easy for game makers to produce titles for the Xbox 2 and for players to get playing. To this end Microsoft was building in to Xbox
A brother and sister in the US have been convicted of sending hundreds of thousands of unsolicited e-mail messages to AOL subscribers. It is the first criminal prosecution of internet spam distributors. Jurors in Virginia recommended that the man, Jeremy Jaynes, serve nine years in prison and that his sister, Jessica DeGroot, be fined $7,500. They were convicted under a state law that bars the sending of bulk e-mails using fake addresses. They will be formally sentenced next year. A third defendant, Richard Rutkowski, was acquitted. Prosecutors said Jaynes was "a snake oil salesman in a new format", using the internet to peddle useless wares, news agency Associated Press reported. A "Fed-Ex refund processor" was supposed to allow people to earn $75 an hour working from home. Another item on sale was an "internet history eraser". His sister helped him process credit card payments. Jaynes amassed a fortune of $24m from his sales, prosecutors said. "He's been successful ripping people off all these years," AP quoted prosecutor Russell McGuire as saying. Jaynes was also found guilty of breaking a state law which prohibits the sending of more than 100,000 e-mails in 30 days, Virginia State Attorney General Jerry Kilgore reportedly said. Prosecutors had asked for 15 years in jail for Jaynes, and a jail term for his sister. But Jaynes' lawyer David Oblon called the nine-year recommended term "outrageous" and said his client believed he was innocent. He pointed out that all three of the accused lived in North Carolina
The digital revolution is focused on letting people tell and share their own stories, according to Carly Fiorina, chief of technology giant Hewlett Packard. The job of firms such as HP now, she said in a speech at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), was to ensure digital and physical worlds fully converged. She said the goal for 2005 was to make people the centre of technology. CES showcases 50,000 new gadgets that will be hitting the shelves in 2005. The tech-fest, the largest of its kind in the world, runs from 6 to 9 January. "The digital revolution is about the democratisation of technology and the experiences it makes possible," she told delegates. "Revolution has always been about giving power to the people." She added: "The real story of the digital revolution is not just new products, but the millions of experiences made possible and stories that millions can tell." Part of giving people more control has been about the freeing up of content, such as images, video and music. Crucial to this has been the effort to make devices that speak to each other better so that content can be more easily transferred from one device, such as a digital camera, to others, such as portable media players. A lot of work still needs to be done, however, to sort out compatibility issues and standards within the technology industry so that gadgets just work seamlessly, she said. Ms Fiorina's talk also touted the way technology is being designed to
Soon you could go hunting via the net. A Texas company is considering letting web users use a remote-controlled rifle to shoot down deer, antelope and wild pigs. For a small fee users will take control of a camera and rifle that they can use to spot and shoot the game animals as they roam around a 133-hectare Texas ranch. The Live-Shot website behind the scheme already lets people practise shooting at targets via the internet. John Underwood, the man behind the Live-Shot website, said the idea for the remote-control hunting came to him a year ago when he was watching deer via a webcam on another net site. "We were looking at a beautiful white-tail buck and my friend said 'If you just had a gun for that'. A little light bulb went off in my head," Mr Underwood told the Reuters news agency. A year's work and $10,000 has resulted in a remote-controlled rig on which sits a camera and .22 calibre rifle. Mr Underwood is planning to put one of these rigs in a concealed location in a small reserve on his Texas ranch and let people shoot at a variety of game animals. Also needed is a fast net connection so remote hunters can quickly track and aim at passing game animals with the camera and rifle rig. Each remote hunting session will cost $150 with additional fees for meat processing and taxidermy work. Species that can be shot will include barbary, Corsican and mouflon sheep,
The 2005 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas is a geek's paradise with more than 50,000 new gadgets and technologies launched during the four-day event. Top gadgets at the show are highlighted in the Innovations Showcase, which recognises some of the hottest developments in consumer electronics. The BBC News website took an early pre-show look at some of those technologies that will be making their debut in 2005. One of the key issues for keen gadget users is how to store all their digital images, audio and video files. The 2.5GB and 5GB circular pocket hard drive from Seagate might help. The external USB drive won a CES best innovations design and engineering award and is small enough to slip into a pocket. "It is the kind of storage that appeals to people who want their PCs to look cool," said Seagate. "It is all about style but it also has lots of functionality." "It is the first time you can say a hard drive is sexy," it said. In the centre of the device is a blue light that flashes while data is being written to ensure users do not unplug it when it is busy saving those precious pictures. Universal Electronics' NevoSL is a universal controller that lets people use one device to get at their multimedia content, such as photos, no matter where it is in their house. It can also act as a remote for home theatre and stereo systems. Working with home broadband networks and
T-Mobile has launched its latest "pocket office" third-generation (3G) device which also has built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access. Unlike other devices where the user has to check which high-speed network is available to transfer data, the device selects the fastest one itself. The MDA IV, released in the summer, is an upgrade to the company's existing smartphone, the 2.5G/wi-fi MDA III. It reflects the push by mobile firms for devices that are like mini laptops. The device has a display that can be swivelled and angled so it can be used like a small computer, or as a conventional clamshell phone. The Microsoft Mobile phone, with two cameras and a Qwerty keyboard, reflects the design of similar all-in-one models released this year, such as Motorola's MPx. "One in five European workers are already mobile - meaning they spend significant time travelling and out of the office," Rene Obermann, T-Mobile's chief executive, told a press conference at the 3GSM trade show in Cannes. He added: "What they need is their office when they are out of the office." T-Mobile said it was seeing increasing take up for what it calls "Office in a Pocket" devices, with 100,000 MDAs sold in Europe already. In response to demand, T-Mobile also said it would be adding the latest phone-shaped Blackberry to its mobile range. Reflecting the growing need to be connected outside the office, it announced it would introduce a flat-fee £20 ($38) a month wi-fi tariff for people in the UK
The Kyrgyz Republic, a small, mountainous state of the former Soviet republic, is using invisible ink and ultraviolet readers in the country's elections as part of a drive to prevent multiple voting. This new technology is causing both worries and guarded optimism among different sectors of the population. In an effort to live up to its reputation in the 1990s as "an island of democracy", the Kyrgyz President, Askar Akaev, pushed through the law requiring the use of ink during the upcoming Parliamentary and Presidential elections. The US government agreed to fund all expenses associated with this decision. The Kyrgyz Republic is seen by many experts as backsliding from the high point it reached in the mid-1990s with a hastily pushed through referendum in 2003, reducing the legislative branch to one chamber with 75 deputies. The use of ink is only one part of a general effort to show commitment towards more open elections - the German Embassy, the Soros Foundation and the Kyrgyz government have all contributed to purchase transparent ballot boxes. The actual technology behind the ink is not that complicated. The ink is sprayed on a person's left thumb. It dries and is not visible under normal light. However, the presence of ultraviolet light (of the kind used to verify money) causes the ink to glow with a neon yellow light. At the entrance to each polling station, one election official will scan voter's fingers with UV lamp before allowing them to enter, and every voter will
Search sites want to get to know you better. Not content with providing access to the millions of websites, many now offer ways that do a better job of remembering, cataloguing and managing all the information you come across. Some of the latest to update their search systems are Ask Jeeves and Blinkx, which have both released a series of utilities that try to help people get more from the web. "The future is all about developing your own personal web," said Tony Macklin, spokesman for Ask Jeeves. Mr Macklin said that too often when people use a search engine it was like the first time they ever used it, because there was no memory of what they had searched for before. "Each time you go back in you have to start all over again," he said. The series of updates to its service, collected under the My Ask Jeeves banner, would help people remember where they had been before. Ask Jeeves has added the ability to "save" websites of interest so the next time a users visits the site they can search through the sites they have previously found. Sites saved in this way can be arranged in folders and have notes attached to them to explain why they were saved. Mr Macklin said many people wanted to save sites they had seen but did not want to add them to their bookmarks or favourites not least because such lists cannot be easily searched. On average, said Mr Macklin,
The hi-tech and the arts worlds have for some time danced around each other and offered creative and technical help when required. Often this help has come in the form of corporate art sponsorship or infrastructure provision. But that dance is growing more intimate as hi-tech firms look to the creative industries for inspiration. And vice versa. UK telco BT is serious about the idea and has launched its Connected World initiative. The idea, says BT, is to shape a "21st Century model" which will help cement the art, technology, and business worlds together. "We are hoping to understand the creative industry that has a natural thirst for broadband technology," said Frank Stone, head of the BT's business sector programmes. He looks after several "centres of excellence" which the telco has set up with other institutions and organisations, one of which is focused on creative industries. To mark the initiative's launch, a major international art installation is to open on 15 April in Brussels, with a further exhibit in Madrid later in the summer. They have both been created using the telco's technology that it has been incubating at its research and development arm, including a sophisticated graphics rendering program. Using a 3D graphics engine, the type commonly used in gaming, Bafta-winning artists Langlands & Bell have created a virtual, story-based, 3D model of Brussels' Coudenberg Cellars. They have recently been excavated and are thought to be the remnants of Coudenberg Palace, an historical seat of European power. The 3D
Computer users across the world continue to ignore security warnings about spam e-mails and are being lured into buying goods, a report suggests. More than a quarter have bought software through spam e-mails and 24% have bought clothes or jewellery. As well as profiting from selling goods or services and driving advertising traffic, organised crime rings can use spam to glean personal information. The Business Software Alliance (BSA) warned that people should "stay alert". "Many online consumers don't consider the true motives of spammers," said Mike Newton, a spokesperson for the BSA which commissioned the survey. "By selling software that appears to be legitimate in genuine looking packaging or through sophisticated websites, spammers are hiding spyware without consumers' knowledge. "Once the software is installed on PCs and networks, information that is given over the internet can be obtained and abused." The results also showed that the proportion of people reading - or admitting to reading - and taking advantage of adult entertainment spam e-mails is low, at one in 10. The research, which covered 6,000 people in six countries and their attitudes towards junk e-mails, revealed that Brazilians were the most likely to read spam. A third of them read unsolicited junk e-mail and 66% buy goods or services after receiving spam. The French were the second most likely to buy something (48%), with 44% of Britons taking advantage of products and services. This was despite 38% of people in all countries being worried about their net security because of
UK mobile owners continue to break records with their text messaging, with latest figures showing that 26 billion texts were sent in total in 2004. The figures collected by the Mobile Data Association (MDA) showed that 2.4 billion were fired off in December alone, the highest monthly total ever. That was 26% more than in December 2003. The records even surpassed the MDA's own predictions, it said. Every day 78 million messages are sent and there are no signs of a slow down. Before December's bumper text record, the previous highest monthly total was in October 2004, when 2.3 billion were sent. Text messaging is set to smash more records in 2005 too, said the MDA, with forecasts suggesting a total of 30 billion for the year. Even though mobiles are becoming increasingly sophisticated with much more multimedia applications, texting is still one of the most useful functions of mobiles. People are using SMS to do much more too. Booking cinema tickets, text voting, and news or sports text alerts are growing popular. Mobile owners have also given the chance to donate to the Disasters Emergency Committee's (DEC) Asian Tsunami fund by texting "Donate" to a simple short code number. Looking further ahead in the year, the MDA's chairman Mike Short, has predicted that more people will go online through their mobiles, estimating 15 billion WAP page impressions. Handsets with GPRS capability - an "always on" net connection - will rise to 75%, while 3G mobile ownership growing to five
Games aimed at "casual players" are set to be even bigger in 2005, according to industry experts. Easy-to-play titles that do not require too much time and that are playable online or downloadable to mobile devices will see real growth in the coming year. The trend shows that gaming is not just about big-hitting, games console titles, which appeal more to "hardcore" gamers, said a panel of experts. They were speaking before the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas which showcases the latest trends in gadgets and technologies for 2005. The panel also insisted that casual gamers were not just women, a common misconception which pervades current thinking about gamer demographics. Casual games like poker, pool, bridge, bingo and puzzle-based titles, which can be played online or downloaded onto mobile devices, were "gender neutral" and different genres attracted different players. Greg Mills, program director at AOL, said its figures suggested that sports-based games attracted 90% of 18 to 24-year-old males, while puzzle games were played by 80% of females. Games like bridge tended to attract the over-50 demographic of gamers. But hardcore gamers who are more attracted to blockbuster gamers which usually require hi-spec PCs, like Half-Life 2, or Halo 2 on Xbox, also liked to have a different type of gaming experience. "When hardcore gamers are not playing Halo, they are playing poker and pool, based on our research," said Geoff Graber, director of Yahoo Games, which attracts about 12 million gamers a month. With the growth of
Search engine firm Google has released a trial tool which is concerning some net users because it directs people to pre-selected commercial websites. The AutoLink feature comes with Google's latest toolbar and provides links in a webpage to Amazon.com if it finds a book's ISBN number on the site. It also links to Google's map service, if there is an address, or to car firm Carfax, if there is a licence plate. Google said the feature, available only in the US, "adds useful links". But some users are concerned that Google's dominant position in the search engine market place could mean it would be giving a competitive edge to firms like Amazon. AutoLink works by creating a link to a website based on information contained in a webpage - even if there is no link specified and whether or not the publisher of the page has given permission. If a user clicks the AutoLink feature in the Google toolbar then a webpage with a book's unique ISBN number would link directly to Amazon's website. It could mean online libraries that list ISBN book numbers find they are directing users to Amazon.com whether they like it or not. Websites which have paid for advertising on their pages may also be directing people to rival services. Dan Gillmor, founder of Grassroots Media, which supports citizen-based media, said the tool was a "bad idea, and an unfortunate move by a company that is looking to continue its hypergrowth". In a statement Google said
Visitors to the British Library will be able to get wireless internet access alongside the extensive information available in its famous reading rooms. Broadband wireless connectivity will be made available in the eleven reading rooms, the auditorium, caf&#233;, restaurant, and outdoor Piazza area. A study revealed that 86% of visitors to the Library carried laptops. The technology has been on trial since May and usage levels make the Library London's most active public hotspot. Previously many were leaving the building to go to a nearby internet caf&#233; to access their e-mail, the study found. "At the British Library we are continually exploring ways in which technology can help us to improve services to our users," said Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library. "Surveys we conducted recently confirmed that, alongside the materials they consult here, our users want to be able to access the internet when they are at the Library for research or to communicate with colleagues," she said. The service will be priced at £4.50 for an hour's session or £35 for a monthly pass. The study, conducted by consultancy Building Zones, found that 16% of visitors came to the Library to sit down and use it as a business centre. This could be because of its proximity to busy mainline stations such as Kings Cross and Euston. The study also found that people were spending an average of six hours in the building, making it an ideal wireless hotspot. Since May the service has registered 1,200
Two-thirds of the world's population, 4 billion people, live on $2,000 a year or less. You might think that the last thing on their minds would be getting a television set or a computer. But that's not the case. Many people in the developing world give up one of their daily meals so they can afford to buy a TV. And now, an Indian-born computer engineer thinks he's come up with a way to give them cheap access to the internet. Carnegie Mellon Professor Raj Reddy has spent the bulk of his professional career trying to find ways to make technology accessible to poor people. The first step is to figure out why poor people would want a personal computer and Professor Reddy thinks he has a pretty good idea of why they might. "I come from a village," says Prof Reddy, "I know what the population is like, many of them are illiterate, and many of them have other concerns." "There, nobody will use it for the conventional uses of a PC, word processing and Powerpoint," he said. "So it's clear to me that if people wanted to use PCs in a village - it has to usable by illiterate people and it must be primarily for entertainment, education, telemedicine, and access to expert advice." Prof Reddy also thinks that tying it into some kind of aid package was the wrong approach. After all, he asked -- what aid group could possibly give expensive computers to 250 million less
Judges at the US Supreme Court have been hearing evidence for and against file-sharing networks. The court will decide whether producers of file-sharing software can ultimately be held responsible for copyright infringement. They questioned if opening the way for the entertainment industry to sue file-sharers could deter innovation. They also said that file-trading firms had some responsibility for inducing people to piracy. The lawsuit, brought by 28 of the world's largest entertainment firms, has raged for several years. Legal experts agree that if the Supreme Court finds in favour of the music and movie industry they would be able to sue file-trading firms into bankruptcy. But if the judge rules that Grokster and Morpheus - the file-sharers at the centre of the case - are merely providers of technology that can have legitimate as well as illegitimate uses, then the music and movie industry would be forced to abandon its pursuit of file-sharing providers. Instead, they would have to pursue individuals who use peer-to-peer networks to get their hands on free music and movies. The hi-tech and entertainment industries have been divided on the issue. Intel filed a document with the Supreme Court earlier this month in defence of Grokster and others, despite misgivings about some aspects of the file-sharing community. It summed up the attitude of many tech firms in its submission which states that its products "are essentially tools, that like any other tools, capable of being used by consumers and businesses for unlawful purposes". Asking firms to
The Gizmondo combined media player, phone and gaming gadget goes on sale on Saturday. Priced at £229, the handheld device is debuting in the UK and goes on sale in the US and mainland Europe in the next few weeks. A catalogue of about 20 games is being prepared for the gadget including The Great Escape and Conflict Vietnam. The British-backed gadget faces stiff competition from handheld gaming devices made by Nintendo and Sony. The Gizmondo device packs a lot of functions inside its black cover and is aimed at gamers and those that want more from their game-playing gadgets. It can be used to play games, music tracks and movies. It can take and store digital photos and be used like a mobile phone to send text, multimedia and e-mail messages. The phone service to enable people to send messages is being provided by pre-pay Vodafone accounts bundled in with the device. It also works with GPS (Global Position System) so can also be used as a navigation aid or to support a variety of location-based services. The GPRS and Bluetooth wireless data systems onboard mean that it can be used for multi-player gaming. The gadget will be available from the Gizmondo store on London's Regent Street and from several other retail partners. Although the device rolls together an impressive list of functions, it will face serious competition from three established names in mobile gaming: Nintendo, Nokia and Sony. The main competition is likely to come from Nintendo and
The world's first digital cinema network will be established in the UK over the next 18 months. The UK Film Council has awarded a contract worth £11.5m to Arts Alliance Digital Cinema (AADC), who will set up the network of up to 250 screens. AADC will oversee the selection of cinemas across the UK which will use the digital equipment. High definition projectors and computer servers will be installed to show mainly British and specialist films. Most cinemas currently have mechanical projectors but the new network will see up to 250 screens in up to 150 cinemas fitted with digital projectors capable of displaying high definition images. The new network will double the world's total of digital screens. Cinemas will be given the film on a portable hard drive and they will then copy the content to a computer server. Each film is about 100 gigabytes and has been compressed from an original one terabyte-size file. Fiona Deans, associate director of AADC, said the compression was visually lossless so no picture degradation will occur. The film will all be encrypted to prevent piracy and each cinema will have an individual key which will unlock the movie. "People will see the picture quality is a bit clearer with no scratches. "The picture will look exactly the same as when the print was first made - there is no degradation in quality over time." The key benefit of the digital network will be an increase in the distribution and screening of British
The internet could soon have two new domain names, aimed at mobile services and the jobs market. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) has given preliminary approval to two new addresses - .mobi and .jobs. They are among 10 new names being considered by the net's oversight body. Others include a domain for pornography, an anti-spam domain as well as .post and .travel, for the postal and travel industries. The .mobi domain would be aimed at websites and other services that work specifically around mobile phones, while the .jobs address could be used by companies wanting a dedicated site for job postings. The process to see the new domain names go live in cyberspace could take months and Icann officials warned that there were no guarantees they would ultimately be accepted. Applicants paid £23,000 apiece to have their proposals considered. The application for .mobi was sponsored by technology firms including Nokia, Microsoft and T-Mobile. Of the 10 currently under consideration, the least likely to win approval is the .xxx domain for pornographic websites. There are currently around 250 domain names in use around the globe, mostly for specific countries such as .fr for France and .uk for Britain. Perhaps unsurprisingly, .com remains the most popular address on the web.
Sun Microsystems has launched a pay-as-you-go service which will allow customers requiring huge computing power to rent it by the hour. Sun Grid costs users $1 (53p) for an hour's worth of processing and storage power on systems maintained by Sun. So-called grid computing is the latest buzz phrase in a company which believes that computing capacity is as important a commodity as hardware and software. Sun likened grid computing to the development of electricity. The system could mature in the same way utilities such as electricity and water have developed, said Sun's chief operating officer Jonathan Schwartz. "Why build your own grid when you can use ours for a buck an hour?" he asked in a webcast launching Sun's quarterly Network Computing event in California. The company will have to persuade data centre managers to adopt a new model but it said it already had interest from customers in the oil, gas and financial services industries. Some of them want to book computing capacity of more than 5,000 processors each, Sun said. Mr Schwartz ran a demonstration of the service, showing how data could be processed in a protein folding experiment. Hundreds of servers were used simultaneously, working on the problem for a few seconds each. Although it only took a few seconds, the experiment cost $12 (£6.30) because it had used up 12 hour's worth of computing power. The Sun Grid relies on Solaris, the operating system owned by Sun. Initially it will house the grid in existing
Legal attacks on websites that help people swap pirated films have forced the development of a system that could be harder to shut down. One site behind the success of the BitTorrent file-swapping system is producing its own software that avoids the pitfalls of the earlier program. A test version of the new Exeem program will be released in late January. But doubts remain about the new networks ability to ensure files being swapped are "quality copies". In late December movie studios launched a legal campaign against websites that helped people swap pirated movies using the BitTorrent network. The legal campaign worked because of the way that BitTorrent is organised. That file-sharing system relies on links called "trackers" that point users to others happy to share the file they are looking for. Shutting down sites that listed trackers crippled the BitTorrent network. One of the sites shut down by the legal campaign was suprnova.org which helped boost the popularity of the BitTorrent system by checking that trackers led to the movies or TV programmes they claimed to. Now the man behind suprnova.org, who goes by the nickname Sloncek, is preparing to release software for a new file-swapping network dubbed Exeem. In an interview with Novastream web radio, Sloncek said Exeem would combine ideas from the BitTorrent and Kazaa file-sharing systems. Like BitTorrent, Exeem will have trackers that help point people toward the file they want. Like Kazaa these trackers will be held by everyone. There will be no centrally maintained
Two men who were part of a huge network of internet software pirates, known as Drink Or Die, have been convicted at the Old Bailey. BBC News investigates how the network worked and what motivated those involved. They called themselves Drink Or Die (DOD). They were a network of computer buffs who derived pleasure from cracking codes protecting copyrighted software such as Windows 95. They would then share it with each other. There is no suggestion any of them profited financially. But the authorities in both Britain and the United States considered it software piracy and took a dim view of networks such as DOD, one of a number of so-called warez organisations operating on the internet. In October 2000 the US Customs Service began an investigation into DOD and other networks, such as Razor 1911, Risciso, Myth and Popz. Fourteen months later US Customs co-ordinated a series of raids across the globe as part of Operation Buccaneer. Seventy search warrants were executed in the US, Britain, Australia, Norway, Sweden and Finland. At least 60 people were arrested worldwide - 45 of them in the US. Among the leaders of the network were Americans John Sankus - known by his internet nickname Eriflleh (Hellfire spelt backwards) - Richard Berry, Kent Kartadinata and Christopher Tresco, who used a server based at the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). The longest jail sentence - 46 months - was handed down to Sankus, a 28-year-old from Philadelphia. US Attorney Paul McNulty said at
Sony's Playstation Portable is the top UK gadget for 2005, according to a round-up of ultimate gizmos compiled by Stuff Magazine. It beats the iPod into second place in the Top Ten Essentials list which predicts what gadget-lovers are likely to covet this year. Owning all 10 gadgets will set the gadget lover back £7,455. That is £1,000 cheaper than last year's list due to falling manufacturing costs making gadgets more affordable. Portable gadgets dominate the list, including Sharp's 902 3G mobile phone, the Pentax Optio SV digital camera and Samsung's Yepp YH-999 video jukebox. "What this year's Essentials shows is that gadgets are now cheaper, sexier and more indispensable than ever. We've got to the point where we can't live our lives without certain technology," said Adam Vaughan, editor of Stuff Essentials. The proliferation of gadgets in our homes is inexorably altering the role of the high street in our lives thinks Mr Vaughan. "Take digital cameras, who would now pay to develop an entire film of photos? Or legitimate downloads, who would travel miles to a record shop when they could download the song in minutes for 70p?" he asks. Next year will see a new set of technologies capturing the imaginations of gadget lovers, Stuff predicts. The Xbox 2, high-definition TV and MP3 mobiles will be among the list of must-haves that will dominate 2006, it says. The spring launch of the PSP in the UK is eagerly awaited by gaming fans.
Literally putting a face on technology could be one of the keys to improving our interaction with hi-tech gadgets. Imagine a surveillance system that also presents a virtual embodiment of a person on a screen who can react to your behaviour, and perhaps even alert you to new e-mails. Basic versions of these so-called avatars already exist. Together with speech and voice recognition systems, they could replace the keyboard and mouse in the near future. Some of these ideas have been showcased at the London's Science Museum, as part of its Future Face exhibition. One such avatar is Jeremiah. It is a virtual man, which you can download for free and install in your computer. His creator, Richard Bowden, lecturer at the Centre for Vision, Speech and Signal Processing at the University of Surrey, refers to Jeremiah as "him", rather than it. "Jeremiah is a virtual face that attempts to emulate humans in the way it responds to activity. He is very childlike, he likes visual stimulus," he told the BBC News website. "When he sees children running and laughing and waving at him, he smiles at them. If you ignore him, he gets angry. If you leave, he gets sad. And you can also even surprise him." Jeremiah is not actually intelligent. It works on vision, reacting in a preset way to the information provided by a surveillance tracker system. It is not able to talk or to hear you, at least not yet. The Surrey team is already
A US woman is suing Hewlett Packard (HP), saying its printer ink cartridges are secretly programmed to expire on a certain date. The unnamed woman from Georgia says that a chip inside the cartridge tells the printer that it needs re-filling even when it does not. The lawsuit seeks to represent anyone in the US who has purchased an HP inkjet printer since February 2001. HP, the world's biggest printer firm, declined to comment on the lawsuit. HP ink cartridges use a chip technology to sense when they are low on ink and advise the user to make a change. But the suit claims the chips also shut down the cartridges at a predetermined date regardless of whether they are empty. "The smart chip is dually engineered to prematurely register ink depletion and to render a cartridge unusable through the use of a built-in expiration date that is not revealed to the consumer," the suit said. The lawsuit is asking for restitution, damages and other compensation. The cost of printer cartridges has been a contentious issue in Europe for the last 18 months. The price of inkjet printers has come down to as little as £34 but it could cost up to £1,700 in running costs over an 18-month period due to cartridge, a study by Computeractive Magazine revealed last year. The inkjet printer market has been the subject of an investigation by the UK's Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which concluded in a 2002 report that retailers and manufacturers
The film adaptation of Lemony Snicket novels has topped the North America box office chart, displacing Ocean's 12. A Series of Unfortunate Events, starring Jim Carrey, took $30.2m (£15.5m) in its debut weekend. Ocean's 12 fell to number two while new entry Spanglish entered the chart at number three, taking $9m (£4.6m). A Series of Unfortunate Events also stars Scottish comedian Billy Connelly, while Carrey takes on a number of different roles in the surreal film. The only other new entry in the top 10 was re-make, Flight of the Phoenix, at number eight, starring Dennis Quaid. Carrey entertained crowds at the UK premiere of Lemony Snicket in London on Friday. The actor grabbed co-star Meryl Streep and whisked her around Leicester Square. Based on the cult children's books by author Daniel Handler, the film follows three children who are orphaned when their parents die in a fire. They are taken in by their wicked uncle Count Olaf, played by Carrey, who schemes to get his hands on their fortune.
Comedy Meet The Fockers has held on to the number one spot at the North American box office for a second week. It took $42.8m (£23.7m) at the weekend, making its overall takings more than $163m (£90m) in 12 days, according to studio estimates. It took $19.1m (£9.9m) on Christmas Day alone, the highest takings on that day in box office history. The sequel to the Ben Stiller comedy Meet The Parents stars Robert De Niro, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand. The success of Meet the Fockers could help produce record box office revenue for 2004, said Paul Dergarabedian, president of the industry's tracker Exhibitor Relations. "We've had a much stronger than anticipated final week of the year that helped the industry end on a high note," said Mr Dergarabedian. Meet the Fockers also broke the box office records for the most money taken on New Year's Eve, when it made $12.2m (£6.2m), and New Year's Day, when it took $18m (£9.4m). The previous New Year's Eve record was set in 2000 by Cast Away with $8.5m (£4.5m). The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King had held the New Year's Day title with $12.8m (£6.7m). However, Christmas takings were down 26.5% on 2003's figures - which was blamed on Christmas falling over a weekend this year. This weekend's top 12 films took an estimated $125.4m (£65.8m), a 4.3% increase on the same weekend last year. But there were no major releases last week to provide competition to
Ex-chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk is to contest the Derbyshire seat of Erewash at the next general election. Labour's Elizabeth Blackman won the seat in 1997 and has a 6,932 majority. She says she will fight on her record "as a hard-working constituency MP". Mr Kilroy-Silk announced his plans a day after launching his new party, Veritas, the Latin for truth. The East Midlands MEP, who quit the UK Independence Party, wants his new group to "change the face" of UK politics. His choice of election constituency quashes speculation that he would stand against Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire. UKIP won 31% of the vote in Erewash in last June's European elections - with Mr Kilroy-Silk among their candidates for the region. Until 1997, Erewash had been held by the Tories since 1970. Ms Blackman said she was proud of the government's achievements in the area. She declined to give her view of Mr Kilroy-Silk at this point. On Thursday, he told a London news conference that Veritas would avoid the old parties' "lies and spin". He said "our country" was being "stolen from us" by mass immigration and promised a "firm but fair" policy on immigration. Veritas says it hopes to contest most seats at the forthcoming general election but plans to announce detailed policies on crime, tax, pensions, health and defence over the next few weeks. UKIP leader Roger Knapman says he is glad to see the back of Mr Kilroy-Silk. Labour campaign spokesman Fraser Kemp
US supermarket group Winn-Dixie has filed for bankruptcy protection after succumbing to stiff competition in a market dominated by Wal-Mart. Winn-Dixie, once among the most profitable of US grocers, said Chapter 11 protection would enable it to successfully restructure. It said its 920 stores would remain open, but analysts said it would most likely off-load a number of sites. The Jacksonville, Florida-based firm has total debts of $1.87bn (£980m). In its bankruptcy petition it listed its biggest creditor as US foods giant Kraft Foods, which it owes $15.1m. Analysts say Winn-Dixie had not kept up with consumers' demands and had also been burdened by a number of stores in need of upgrading. A 10-month restructuring plan was deemed a failure, and following a larger-than-expected quarterly loss earlier this month, Winn-Dixie's slide into bankruptcy was widely expected. The company's new chief executive Peter Lynch said Winn-Dixie would use the Chapter 11 breathing space to take the necessary action to turn itself around. "This includes achieving significant cost reductions, improving the merchandising and customer service in all locations and generating a sense of excitement in the stores," he said. Yet Evan Mann, a senior bond analyst at Gimme Credit, said Mr Lynch's job would not be easy, as the bankruptcy would inevitably put off some customers. "The real big issue is what's going to happen over the next one or two quarters now that they are in bankruptcy and all their customers see this in their local newspapers," he said.
The Conservative Party would cut the number of MPs by about one-fifth if they were elected, Tory leader Michael Howard has said. The plan forms part of the party's "smaller government bill", to be unveiled later this week. Mr Howard told the Sunday Times the party would also reduce the number of government special advisers. And he said a referendum would be held in Wales to decide whether or not to scrap the Welsh Assembly. The changes would all take place within five years of the Conservatives winning a general election, Mr Howard told the paper. The precise number of MPs to go would depend on the result of the Welsh referendum, but it would probably mean a reduction of around 120 from the current total of 659. If Wales decided to keep its assembly it would stand to lose more MPs. Mr Howard said as both parties planned to cut the number of civil servants at Whitehall - Labour by more than 80,000 and the Tories by almost 100,000 - they should accept a similar drop in their own numbers. "It is all very well saying government departments should be reduced, but what about ministers, Parliament and special advisers?" he said. Shadow leader of the Commons Oliver Heald said: "This will be part of our aim to reduce unnecessary and costly interference in people's lives by reducing the size and role of the State". Mr Howard said the plan would also even out the "great unfairness" of there being
Veteran Labour MP and former Cabinet minister Jack Cunningham has said he will stand down at the next election. One of the few Blair-era ministers to serve under Jim Callaghan, he was given the agriculture portfolio when Labour regained power in 1997. Mr Cunningham went on to become Tony Blair's "cabinet enforcer". He has represented the constituency now known as Copeland since 1970. Mr Blair said he was a "huge figure" in Labour and a "valued, personal friend". During Labour's long period in opposition, Mr Cunningham held a number of shadow roles including foreign affairs, the environment and as trade spokesman. As agriculture minister he caused controversy when he decided to ban beef on the bone in the wake of fears over BSE. He quit the government in 1999 and in recent years has served as the chairman of the all-party committee on Lords reform and has been a loyal supporter of the government from the backbenches.
Film comedy Meet The Fockers, sequel to Meet The Parents, has topped the US box office for a third week. The movie, which stars Ben Stiller, Robert De Niro, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand, took $28.5m (£15.2m), making a total of 204.3m (£109m). Michael Keaton thriller White Noise was second with $24m (£12.8m) despite negative reviews. Martin Scorsese's Howard Hughes biopic The Aviator came third with $7.6m (£4m) and a total of $42.9m (£22.8m). Children's adventure Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events, starring Jim Carrey and Meryl Streep, fell two places to fourth position with $7.4m (£3.9m). It is also the ninth Jim Carrey film to hit the $100m (£53.2m) mark, according to Exhibitor Relations. And Fat Albert, a live-action adaptation of Bill Cosby's TV cartoon, fell one place to number five, with takings over the three days beginning on Friday of $5m (£2.6m). Ocean's Twelve took sixth place in the US chart with $5.4m (£2.8m), but it led the non-US chart at the weekend, according to Hollywood Reporter, with an estimated $17.7m (£9.4m) and total takings of $137m (£73m). The Incredibles took $300m (£160m) outside the US, while Meet the Fockers topped box office charts in Australia and Mexico with non-US takings of $19.35m (£10.2m).
Fox hunting with dogs is now illegal in England and Wales after a ban on the activity came into force overnight. The law faces a stiff test this weekend, with the Countryside Alliance saying many hunts will be out in force. Chief police officers spokesman Nigel Yeo said he expected most people would obey the law - by drag hunting or chasing foxes then shooting them. He said police would challenge the "one of two isolated hunts" which are threatening to break the law. But Simon Hart of the Countryside Alliance has questioned how police will ensure there are no violations. "The definitions of legal and illegal hunting are so blurred that the police are being asked to make impossible judgements. "You can hunt a rat, but not a mouse, a rabbit but not a hare, an artificial scent, but not a real one," he said. The Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, has so far issued no instructions to police on how they should deal with hunters who violate the law. He said he will consult the Director of Public Prosecutions and the police "in the near future" to decide what measures to take with regards to hunting prosecutions. He has rejected a "blanket policy" of not enforcing the ban until the House of Lords has considered its legality. John Cooper, a barrister and chairman of the League Against Cruel Sports, said the anti-hunting lobby expects the authorities to prosecute wherever there is clear evidence of illegal hunting practices. He said
Senior officials at the two bodies generating private income for the Queen and Prince of Wales are to be questioned by MPs. Aides from the Duchy of Lancaster and Duchy of Cornwall will appear before the Commons Public Accounts Committee. It has been reported they could be questioned about Prince Charles' spending on Camilla Parker Bowles. But BBC correspondent Peter Hunt said they are not responsible for how money is spent and may be unable to answer. Duchy officials, who will appear before the committee on Monday, are only responsible for generating money. The Duchy of Lancaster provides the Queen's private income, while the Duchy of Cornwall provides Prince Charles' annual income. The Duchy of Cornwall is a 140,000-acre estate across 25 counties, and also includes residential properties, shops, offices, stocks and shares. It was set up in 1337 by King Edward III to provide income for successive heirs to the throne. It covers the cost of the prince's public and private life - neither Charles, nor William and Harry, receive taxpayers' money from the Civil List. However, the Prince of Wales did receive over £4m from government departments and grants-in-aid in 2003-4. The duchy last year generated almost £12m. The prince has voluntarily paid income tax - currently 40% - since 1993.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger claimed their display in the 3-1 defeat against Bayern Munich was "our worst peformance in the Champions League". Kolo Toure's late goal gives the Gunners hope for the second leg, but Wenger said: "The only positive is that we are still in the tie. "The players are really down in the dressing-room. I feel we really turned in a bad performance. "At 3-0 we faced a real struggle, but 3-1 at least gives us a chance." Goalscorer Toure was also at fault for two goals, and Wenger said: "We need to help Toure rebuild his confidence as he is low at the moment." Wenger also tried to stay upbeat himself, adding: "But there is enough time for crying. I could cry - maybe it would be easier - but life goes on. "In this job, you have good and bad nights. This was a bad night - but I still have confidence in the quality of my players, as well as their spirit and desire." But Wenger's Bayern counterpart Felix Magath was in no mood to celebrate either. He said: "I am far from happy despite the win. My players failed to try and score a fourth to kill the tie and then conceded the late goal. "Arsenal are fully capable of scoring several goals against us on their own turf." Arsenal keeper Jens Lehmann, whose personal rivalry with Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn was not helped by the result, said: "Do I blame myself for the
Malcolm Glazer has made a fresh approach to buy Manchester United, which could lead to a bid valuing the Premiership club at £800m. The US tycoon, who has been wooing the club for the last 12 months, has approached the United board with "detailed proposals", it has confirmed. Mr Glazer, who owns the Tampa Bay Buccaneers team, hopes this will lead to a formal bid being accepted. His new offer is expected to contain substantially less debt. Mr Glazer has already had one takeover attempt turned down by the Red Devils and responded by using his 28.1% shareholding to vote off three board members last November. Man United had turned down the bid because it was based on a high level of borrowing. But newspapers have speculated recently that the tycoon had gained the support of leading banks to come up with a stronger and less debt-laden bid. Last week, however, Mr Glazer issued a statement to the Stock Exchange distancing himself from a new bid. Meanwhile, United's chief executive David Gill said in December that talks would not resume unless Glazer came up with "definitive proposals". Now the board has confirmed that the US bidder is back, with a statement issued on Sunday reading: "The board can confirm it has now received a detailed proposal subject to various preconditions which may form the basis of an offer. "A further announcement will be made in due course." To succeed Malcolm Glazer will still need the approval of major shareholders John
Producer Mel Gibson will not be using paid advertisements to promote The Passion of the Christ to voters in next year's Academy Awards. Gibson and his Icon Productions partner Bruce Davey said they would not be campaigning in print, radio or TV for success at the Oscars in February. "This film should be judged on its artistic merit, not who spends more money on advertising," Davey said. But DVDs will be sent to Oscar voters, who will be invited to screenings. Icon spent very little on advertising the film, which deals with the last hours of Jesus Christ's life, when it was released earlier this year - instead, it made the film available for special screenings at churches. It went on to gross over $600m (£322m) in ticket sales worldwide. Over recent years, marketing films to the members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has become a multi-million dollar industry. Last year, the academy formed a committee to tighten the rules after the campaigns spilled over into personal attacks between studios. Academy president Frank Pierson praised Gibson's move for working to restore the Oscars as a "celebration and appreciation of excellence," and resisting the "crass commercialisation that was threatening the integrity of the award".
US food and drug regulators will decide on Friday whether to recommend the sale of painkillers that have been linked to a high risk of heart attack and stroke. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory panel will give its verdict after hearing evidence for three days. The painkillers - called COX-2 inhibitors - are sold under brand names such as Celebrex and Vioxx. Vioxx was withdrawn from shops last year but Merck said it would consider selling it if it gets FDA approval. The FDA has been asked to decide if the benefits to patients justify the increased risks. Putting Vioxx back on the shelves is likely to boost profits at Merck and make easier any legal battles with people who claim to have been injured by the drug, analysts said. Merck voluntarily stopped sales of Vioxx on 30 September, a move which caused the firm's fourth-quarter earnings to slide to $1.1bn (£581m), from $1.4bn a year earlier. Merck's shares tumbled more than 10% on the news and the company has had to set aside millions of dollars to cover the cost of Vioxx-related litigation. Alarm bells were rung by a research note called Approve which showed that the risk of heart attack and stroke doubled in patients who had been taking the drug for at least 18 months. The Cox-2 inhibitors were developed by drug companies, including Merck and Pfizer, because they cause users fewer stomach problems than other painkillers. Pfizer is still selling its Celebrex and Bextra
Shares in US phone company MCI have risen on speculation that it is in takeover talks. The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Qwest has bid $6.3bn (£3.4bn) for MCI. Other firms have also expressed an interest in MCI, the second-largest US long-distance phone firm, and may now table rival bids, analysts said. Shares in MCI, which changed its name from Worldcom when it emerged from bankruptcy, were up 2.4% at $20.15. Press reports suggest that Qwest and MCI may reach an agreement as early as next week, although rival bids may muddy the waters. The largest US telephone company Verizon has previously held preliminary merger discussions with MCI, Reuters quoted sources as saying. Consolidation in the US telecommunications industry has picked up in the past few months as companies look to cut costs and boost client bases. A merger between MCI and Qwest would be the fifth billion-dollar telecoms deal since October. Last week, SBC Communications agreed to buy its former parent and phone trailblazer AT&T for about $16bn. Competition has intensified and fixed-line phone providers such as MCI and AT&T have seen themselves overtaken by rivals. Buying MCI would give Qwest, a local phone service provider, access to MCI's global network and business-based subscribers. MCI also offers internet services. MCI was renamed after it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in April last year. It hit the headlines as Worldcom in 2002 after admitting it illegally booked expenses and inflated profits. The scandal was a key factor
Manchester City striker Nicolas Anelka has issued an apology for criticising the ambitions of the club. Anelka was quoted in a French newspaper as saying he would like to play in the Champions League for a bigger club. But chairman John Wardle said: "I've spoken to Nicolas and he's apologised for anything that might have been mistakenly taken from the French press. "We are a big club. Nicolas told me that he agrees with me that we are a big club." Wardle was speaking at the club's annual general meeting, where he also confirmed the club had not received any bids for the former Arsenal and Real Madrid striker. The club still owe French club PSG £5m from the purchase of Anelka in May 2002. He has been linked with a move to Barcelona and Liverpool, and Reds skipper Steven Gerrard also revealed he is an admirer from his time on loan at Anfield. But Wardle added: "There's been no bids for Nicolas Anelka. No-one has come to me and said I would like to buy Nicolas Anelka. "If a bid comes in for Nicolas Anelka I will speak to the board and then speak to Kevin Keegan. "If there was a bid and it was a bid of substance and worth taking then between us we'd decide. "We still owe some money on Nicolas which we have clear out, so it would have to be above that." Wardle did stress that the club was not inviting any offers for
The creator of defunct TV soap Brookside has written to the culture minister to offer to buy Channel 4. Phil Redmond, now chairman of Mersey TV, told Tessa Jowell he would run it with its current remit intact for the next 10 years. But media watchdog Ofcom has said the the commercially funded public service broadcaster will not be privatised. A spokesman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said there were no plans to sell the channel. He added that primary legislation would be required for the station to be sold off, which the government was not intending to introduce. Brookside was axed in 2003 after its ratings slumped from a peak of seven million to just 1.5 million. Redmond also brought teen soap Hollyoaks to Channel 4 and created Grange Hill, the school-based drama serial which was first broadcast on BBC One in 1978. He was awarded the CBE for services to drama earlier this year.
A US musicologist has recreated a lost musical score by German composer Johann Sebastian Bach. The 1728 composition, called Wedding Cantata BWV 216, was found among the papers of Japanese pianist Chieko Hara, who died in Japan in 2001 aged 86. The work, written for the wedding of a daughter of a German customs official, was missing for 80 years. Joshua Rifkin - a composer and leading interpreter of Bach - has recreated the missing instrumental parts. He said he originally wanted to let the lost cantata lie in rest. "Maybe a fragment should stay a fragment," said Rifkin. "Then I thought of palaeontologists, from one bone they figure the entire dinosaur. This is my dinosaur." The eight rediscovered pages consist of vocal pieces in German for soprano and alto, with the seven movements lasting for a total of between 20 and 25 minutes. The instrumental parts were entirely lost except for two recycled movements, a duet and an aria which had been used elsewhere in Bach's work. Rifkin likened the challenge to a "musical Rubik's cube". "I could not reconstruct what Bach wrote but I could give the people of today an idea of what his music was like," he said. "It sounds like Bach's music, but the listener should not know which part is Bach's and which part is mine."
Carlos Moya became the first man to successfully defend the Chennai Open title by beating four-times finalist Paradorn Srichaphan 3-6 6-4 7-6 (7/5). The Spaniard then donated his £28,000 prize money to relief efforts for the victims of the Asian tsunami. The final was close throughout, with Thai second seed Srichaphan - the 2003 winner - closing out the first set. But Moya took the second set, before bouncing back from 5-2 down in the decider to force and win a tie-break. Moya confirmed afterwards: "I'm donating my prize money from this tournament for the tsunami victims, hoping it makes some difference to their lives. His contribution follows pledges by four other players to donate their prize money from the tournament, which went ahead after the 26 December disaster which has so far claimed at least 150,000 lives. Scrichapan said he would donate an unspecified amount for relief work in Thailand, where more than 5,000 people were killed. The ATP has announced that it would contribute the US$25,000 tournament fee to Unicef's emergency relief fund in Tamil Nadu. The ATP Tour's sponsor, Mercedes, said it would also contribute, increasing the ATP donation to US$40,000.
The official re-election site of President George W Bush is blocking visits from overseas users for "security reasons". The blocking began early on Monday so those outside the US and trying to view the site got a message saying they are not authorised to view it. But keen net users have shown that the policy is not being very effective. Many have found that the site can still be viewed by overseas browsers via several alternative net addresses. The policy of trying to stop overseas visitors viewing the site is thought to have been adopted in response to an attack on the georgewbush.com website. Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney campaign said: "The measure was taken for security reasons." He declined to elaborate any further on the blocking policy. The barring of non-US visitors has led to the campaign being inundated with calls and forced it to make a statement about why the blocking was taking place. In early October a so-called "denial of service" attack was mounted on the site that bombarded it with data from thousands of PCs. The attack made the site unusable for about five hours. About the same time the web team of the Bush-Cheney campaign started using the services of a company called Akamai that helps websites deal with the ebbs and flows of visitor traffic. Akamai uses a web-based tool called EdgeScape that lets its customers work out where visitors are based. Typically this tool is used to ensure that webpages, video
The Scottish Football Association is awaiting referee Hugh Dallas's report before acting against Hearts winger Saulius Mikoliunas. Mikoliunas, 20, barged linesman Andy Davis, who had advised Dallas to award Rangers an injury-time penalty in Hearts's 2-1 defeat at Tynecastle. "He was sent off for violent conduct in the 90th minute but we don't know if he did something else after the whistle. "We don't know how many red cards he was shown," said an SFA statement. Hearts could also face action after three fans were arrested for throwing coins on the pitch. Rangers' striker Dad Prso was also sent off during the same incident when he received a second yellow card for wrestling the ball away from Craig Gordon and leaving the Hearts keeper on the ground. The SFA said: "Once the referee's report comes in then we'll immediately look at things. "We don't normally get the reports until a couple of days after the game but we're well aware of what happened here. "Prso was sent off for two cautions, and that will just be a one-match suspension." The SFA is certain to come down hard on Mikoliunas after Southampton's David Prutton was banned for 10-games on Wednesday by the English FA for shoving referee Alan Wiley. Hearts' boss John Robertson said: "Mikoliunas has thrown his chest against the assistant referee's chest and got a red card for it. "The officials have got to take into account the fact he's a young lad. "But people have got to take
Martina Hingis has admitted that she might consider a competitive return to tennis if an appearance in Thailand later this month goes well. The former world number one will play at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, which starts on 31 January, as part of her charity work in the region. "The tournament is a test," she said. "I don't know how my body will react. "I support several charities in Thailand. I'm also playing to see where I am." Speaking to Le Matin, the 24-year-old Swiss added: "At Pattaya there will not be as many people and the players are ranked between the 30th and 95th in the world." Hingis was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles, and her last WTA event was in Filderstadt, Germany, in October 2002, when she lost to Elena Dementieva.
Russian drama The Return (Vozvrashchenie) has been named winner of the BBC Four World Cinema Award. The film tells the story of two adolescent boys who are subjected to a harsh regime when their strict father returns after a 10-year absence. Directed by Andrey Zvyagintsev, The Return previously won the 2003 Golden Lion award at the Venice Film Festival. The prize was presented at an awards ceremony held in London on Thursday and hosted by Jonathan Ross. The winner was chosen by a panel which included X Files actress Gillian Anderson, critic Roger Clarke and Touching the Void director Kevin McDonald. Ross, who is the presenter of BBC One's Film 2005, was also involved in the deliberations. A shortlist of six films from around the world had been drawn up from which the panel chose. Other nominees included the Motorcycle Diaries, Zatoichi and Hero. A viewer poll saw director Zhang Yimou's martial arts epic Hero emerge as the favourite with 32% of votes cast. Tragedy struck the production of The Return when one of the young stars, 15-year-old Vladimir Girin, drowned in a lake where some of the film's scenes were set. The winner of the World Cinema Award last year was the French animated feature Belleville Rendezvous
The Conservative Party would deal "sympathetically" with any application by disgraced peer Lord Archer to rejoin its ranks, its co-chairman has said. Dr Liam Fox told BBC One's Breakfast with Frost programme there was no place for "vindictiveness" in politics. Lord Archer spent two years in prison after being convicted of perjury and perverting the course of justice. The former Tory deputy chairman's five-year suspension from the party has just elapsed. A jury ruled that Lord Archer lied during a libel trial against the Daily Star at the High Court in London in 1987. He won damages after the newspaper printed allegations about involvement with a prostitute. Dr Fox was asked if he would say yes or no if Lord Archer applied to rejoin. "I'm sure that in line with people having served their sentence and having done some reparations for what they did wrong, we would look at that sympathetically. "I don't believe in vindictiveness, I don't think that has any place in politics, unlike the prime minister and Alastair Campbell." Tory peer Lord Tebbit said he agreed with Dr Fox's view, and said the case should be looked at on its merits. "After all, he is far from being the worst perjurer in the world," he added. Meanwhile, senior Conservative MP Sir Teddy Taylor warned that moves bring Lord Archer back into the fold could be controversial. He said: "I suppose, on a Sunday in particular, we should always make provision for forgiving sinners. But there is no
David Beckham expressed his relief at Real Madrid's passage to the Champions League knockout phase. After Real's 3-0 win at Roma, the England skipper admitted another season of under-achievement would not be tolerated at the Bernabeu stadium. Beckham said: "It's expected of Madrid to get through, but it's a relief for the club and players to have won. "We lost momentum last season but we cannot afford to to go another season without winning anything." Real's finish as runners-up in their Champions League group means they cannot face his old club Manchester United in the next round. But Real could be drawn against other Premiership hopefuls, Arsenal or Chelsea, who won their respective groups. "It's going to be great whoever we play, even if we don't get either of the two English teams."
Liverpool may launch an £8m January bid for long-time target Fernando Morientes, according to reports. The Real Madrid striker has been linked with a move to Anfield since the summer and is currently behind Raul, Ronaldo and Michael Owen at the Bernabeu. Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez is keen to bolster his forward options with Djibril Cisse out until next season. "If there is an attractive propostition it could be I would be keen to leave," admitted the 28-year-old Morientes. He added: "Unfortunately, I'm not in control of the situation. I'm under contract to Real and they will make any decisions." The fee could put Liverpool off a prospective deal but Real are keen to net the cash as they are reported to be preparing a massive summer bid for Inter Milan striker Adriano. The Reds are currently sixth in the Premiership, 15 points behind leaders Chelsea.
Hereford win 3-1 on penalties. Rovers took the lead on 59 minutes as Michael McIndoe's corner found Adriano Rigoglioso, whose stunning volley soared into the top right of the net. Danny Williams equalised for the hosts after 72 minutes with a crisp finish from just insist the penalty box. McIndoe saw an extra-time penalty saved, giving Mills the chance to net the winning penalty. Mawson, Travis, Mkandawire, James, Robinson, Daniel Williams, Stanley, Hyde (Pitman 105), Purdie (Mills 83), Brown, Stansfield (Green 102). Subs Not Used: Smith, Scott. James. Daniel Williams 72. Ingham, Mulligan, Fenton, Morley, Priet (Ryan 79), McIndoe, Ravenhill (Price 90), Rigoglioso, Tierney (Jackson 79), Beardsley, Coppinger. Subs Not Used: Warrington, Maloney. Rigoglioso 59. 1,375 T Parkes (W Midlands).
Ethiopia produced 14.27 million tonnes of crops in 2004, 24% higher than in 2003 and 21% more than the average of the past five years, a report says. In 2003, crop production totalled 11.49 million tonnes, the joint report from the Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Food Programme said. Good rains, increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds contributed to the rise in production. Nevertheless, 2.2 million Ethiopians will still need emergency assistance. The report calculated emergency food requirements for 2005 to be 387,500 tonnes. On top of that, 89,000 tonnes of fortified blended food and vegetable oil for "targeted supplementary food distributions for a survival programme for children under five and pregnant and lactating women" will be needed. In eastern and southern Ethiopia, a prolonged drought has killed crops and drained wells. Last year, a total of 965,000 tonnes of food assistance was needed to help seven million Ethiopians. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) recommend that the food assistance is bought locally. "Local purchase of cereals for food assistance programmes is recommended as far as possible, so as to assist domestic markets and farmers," said Henri Josserand, chief of FAO's Global Information and Early Warning System. Agriculture is the main economic activity in Ethiopia, representing 45% of gross domestic product. About 80% of Ethiopians depend directly or indirectly on agriculture.
The board of Indian conglomerate Reliance has agreed a share buy-back, to counter the effects of a power struggle in the controlling family. The buy-back is a victory for chairman Mukesh Ambani, whose idea it was. His brother Anil, the vice-chairman, said had not been consulted and that the buy-back was "completely inappropriate and unnecessary". The board hopes the move will reverse a 13% fall in Reliance's shares since the feud became public last month. The company has been fractious since founder Dhirubhai Ambani died in 2002, leaving no will. "Today's round has gone to [Mukesh], there is no doubt about it," said Nanik Rupani, president of the Indian Merchants Chamber, a Bombay-based traders' body. The company plans to buy back 52 million shares at 570 rupees (£6.80; $13) apiece, a premium of more than 10% to its current market price.
France scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili praised his team after they fought back to beat England 18-17 in the Six Nations clash at Twickenham. Yachvili kicked all of France's points as they staged a second-half revival. "We didn't play last week against Scotland and we didn't play in the first half against England," he said. "But we're very proud to beat England at Twickenham. We were just defending in the first half and we said we had to put them under pressure. We did well." Yachvili admitted erratic kicking from England's Charlie Hodgson and Olly Barkley, who missed six penalties and a drop goal chance between them, had been decisive. "I know what it's like with kicking. When you miss some it's very hard mentally, but it went well for us," he said. France captain Fabien Pelous insisted his side never doubted they could secure their first win against England at Twickenham since 1997. France were 17-6 down at half-time, but Pelous said: "No-one was down at half-time, we were still confident. "We said we only had 11 points against us, which was not much. "The plan was to keep hold of possession and pressure England to losing their composure." France coach Bernard Laporte accepted his side had not played well. "We know we have to play better to defend the title," he said. "I'm not happy we didn't score a try but we're happy because we won."
The Lib Dems have appointed a senior figure from BT to be the party's new communications chief for their next general election effort. Sandy Walkington will now work with senior figures such as Matthew Taylor on completing the party manifesto. Party chief executive Lord Rennard said the appointment was a "significant strengthening of the Lib Dem team". Mr Walkington said he wanted the party to be ready for any "mischief" rivals or the media tried to throw at it. "My role will be to ensure this new public profile is effectively communicated at all levels," he said. "I also know the party will be put under scrutiny in the media and from the other parties as never before - and we will need to show ourselves ready and prepared to counter the mischief and misrepresentation that all too often comes from the party's opponents. "The party is already demonstrating on every issue that it is the effective opposition." Mr Walkington's new job title is director of general election communications.
Slovakia will play Argentina in the final of the Hopman Cup after beating Group B rivals the Netherlands 3-0. Daniela Hantuchova defeated Michaella Krajicek 6-4 6-2 to give the Slovaks the perfect start before Dutchman Peter Wessels retired against Dominik Hrbaty. Wessels was unable to compete in the mixed doubles but Slovakia had already booked their place in the final for the second year running. Argentina claimed top spot in Group A with three wins from three matches. In the other Group B match, the United States defeated Australia 2-1. Meghann Shaughnessy lost the opening match against Alicia Molik but James Blake levelled the tie with a 6-3 6-4 win over Paul Baccanello, who came in as a replacement for the injured Mark Philippoussis. Blake and Shaughnessy then beat Molik and Baccanello in a tense mixed doubles contest to take the win. Hantuchova, who did not win a Hopman Cup singles match in 2004, has been in good form during this year's event and has won two of her three matches. "I feel like it's really deserved this time as I've helped Dominik to get through," she said. "I think if I keep going the way I have been in the past few matches then I will be okay. "I was really pleased with my last two singles, even the first one, which was a really high standard. "You can't ask for a better preparation than to play a few matches here for the Australian Open."
'God games' in which players must control virtual people and societies could be educational, says research. A US researcher has suggested that games such as The Sims could be a good way to teach languages. Ravi Purushotma believes that the world of The Sims can do a better job of teaching vocabulary and grammar than traditional methods. The inherent fun of game playing could help to make learning languages much less of a chore, said Mr Purushotma. There must be few parents or teachers that do not worry that the lure of a video game on a computer or console is hard to resist by children that really should be doing their homework. But instead of fearing computer games, Ravi Purushotma believes that educationalists, particularly language teachers should embrace games. "One goal would be to break what I believe to be the false assumption that learning and play are inherently oppositional," he said. He believes that the "phenomenal ability" of games such as The Sims and others to capture the interest of adolescent audiences is ripe for exploitation. The hard part of learning any language, said Mr Purushotma, were the basic parts of learning what different words refer to and how they are used to build up sentences. Boring lessons drumming vocabulary into pupils couched in terms they do not understand has made many languages far harder to learn than they should be. "The way we often teach foreign languages right now is somewhat akin to learning to ride a
Russian authorities do not have to abide by any US court decisions taken with regard to troubled oil giant Yukos, a Houston court has been told. Legal expert William Butler said there was no treaty between the US and Russia to recognise the other's legal rulings. That meant Moscow would not have to adhere to US rulings in the Yukos case. Yukos says a US court was entitled to declare it bankrupt before its Yugansk unit was sold, since it has a US subsidiary and local bank accounts. Yukos made its surprise Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing in Houston in December in an unsuccessful attempt to halt the auction of Yugansk, its main oil producing unit, by Russian authorities. Yugansk was sold to help pay off a $27.5bn (£14.5bn) back tax bill. It was bought for $9.4bn by a previously unknown group, which was in turn bought by state-controlled oil company Rosneft. The US court's jurisdiction has been challenged by Deutsche Bank and Gazpromneft, a former unit of Russian gas monopoly Gazprom which is due to merge with Rosneft. Deutsche Bank maintains the case has no place in a US court because Yukos has no assets in the US, apart from two bank accounts and a house in Houston owned by its chief finance officer Bruce Misamore. Deutsche Bank is involved in the case because it is itself being sued by Yukos. It had agreed to loan Gazpromneft the money to bid for Yugansk. US bankruptcy judge Letitia Clark, who issued
UK firms are embracing internet trading opportunities as never before, e-commerce minister Mike O'Brien says. A government-commissioned study ranked the UK third in its world index of use of information and communication technology (ICT). The report suggests 69% of UK firms are now using broadband and that 30% of micro businesses are trading online. Mr O'Brien said UK businesses were sprinting forward in ICT use, but that there were more challenges ahead. The report, carried out independently by consultants Booz Allen Hamilton and HI Europe, placed the UK third behind Sweden and Ireland for business use of ICT. It showed British business brought greater maturity to their ICT use, by using broadband in increased numbers, bringing ICT into their business plans and using new technologies such as voice activated programmes and desktop video conferences. Mr O'Brien said: "The increase in the proportion of business connected by broadband shows that UK companies are embracing the opportunities that ICT can bring. "It is particularly encouraging to see that small businesses are beginning to narrow the digital divide that appeared to have opened up in recent years." The government would play its part in "cultivating an environment where information and communication technologies can flourish", Mr O'Brien said. The "clear message" the report sends is that effective use of ICT can bring real improvements in business performance for all business. "However, we are not at the finishing line yet and many challenges remain if the UK is to reach its aim of becoming a
A row over whether only Greece should be allowed to label its cheese feta has reached the European Court of Justice. The Danish and German governments are challenging a European Commission ruling which said Greece should have sole rights to use the name. The Commission's decision gave the same legal protection to feta as to Italian Parma ham and French Champagne. But critics of the judgement say feta is a generic term, with the cheese produced widely outside Greece. The Commission's controversial 2002 ruling gave "protected designation of origin" status to feta cheese made in Greece, effectively restricting the use of the feta name to producers there. From 2007 onwards, Greek firms will have the exclusive use of the feta label and producers elsewhere in Europe must find another name to describe their products. The German and Danish governments argue that feta does not relate to a specific geographical area and that their firms have been producing and exporting the cheese for years. "In our opinion it is a generic designation and we do not have any other name or term for this type of cheese," Hans Arne Kristiansen, a spokesman for the Danish Dairy Board, told the BBC. Denmark is Europe's second largest producer of feta after Greece - producing about 30,000 tonnes a year - and exports its products to Greece. It is concerned that the ruling could threaten the production of other cheeses in Denmark such as brie. "It would cost millions if we wanted to introduce
Women will be employed in Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry for the first time this year, Foreign Minister Prince Saud Al-Faisal has been reported as saying. The move comes as the conservative country inches open the door to working women. Last year, Crown Prince Abdullah, the de-facto ruler, told government departments to put plans in place for employing women. But progress has been slow, reports from the country say. Earlier this week, the local Arab News said Labour Minister Ghazi al-Gosaibi had "caused uproar" when he said his ministry was having difficulty hiring women because they demanded segregated offices. The newspaper said many Saudi women found his explanation "a pitiful excuse for not employing women". Women now make up more than half of all graduates from Saudi universities but only 5% of the workforce. "Our educational reforms have created a new generation of highly-educated and professionally trained Saudi women who are acquiring their rightful position in Saudi society," Arab News quoted Prince Saud as saying. "I am proud to mention here that this year we shall have women working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the first time."
Nintendo's DS handheld game console has officially gone on sale in Europe. Many stores around the UK opened at midnight to let keen gamers get their hands on the device. The two-screen clamshell gadget costs £99 (149 euros) and 15 games are available for it at launch, some featuring well-known characters such as Super Mario and Rayman. The DS spearheads Nintendo's attempt to continue its dominance of the handheld gaming market. Since going on sale in Japan and the US at the end of 2004, Nintendo has sold almost 4m DS consoles. Part of this popularity may be due to the fact that the DS can run any of the catalogue of 700 games produced for Nintendo's GameBoy Advance handheld. Games for the DS are expected to cost between £19 and £29. About 130 games for the DS are in development. As well as having two screens, one of which is controlled by touch, the DS also lets players take on up to 16 other people via wireless. A "download play" option means DS owners can take each other on even if only one of them owns a copy of a particular game. Other DS owners can also be sent text messages and drawings. Nintendo is also planning to release a media adapter for the handheld so it can play music and video. Five Virgin megastores and 150 Game shops were expected to open early on Friday morning to let people buy a DS. "We know that customers want it
Paula Radcliffe has called for all athletes found guilty on drugs charges to be treated as criminals. The marathon world record holder believes more needs to be done to rid athletics of the "suspicions and innuendoes" which greet any fast time. "Doping in sport is a criminal offence and should be treated as such," the 30-year-old told the Sunday Times. "It not only cheats other athletes but also cheats promoters, sponsors and the general public." Radcliffe's comments come at a time when several American sports stars are under suspicion of steroid use. "Being caught in possession of a performance-enhancing drugs should carry a penalty," she added. "The current system does not detect many of the substances being abused by athletes. "This means that often athletes do not know if they are competing on a level playing field, if their hard work and sacrifice is being trumped by an easier scientific route. "Often, when an athlete puts in a good performance, they are subjected to suspicions and innuendoes instead of praise. "Having been on the receiving end of accusations like this I can testify as to how much this hurts."
Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has warned that allowing huge US budget deficits to continue could have "severe" consequences. Speaking to the House Budget Committee he urged Congress to take action to cut the deficit, such as increasing taxes. While the US economy is growing at a "reasonably good pace" he warned that budget concerns were clouding the economic outlook for the US. Pension and healthcare costs posed the greatest risks to the economy, he said. The government program faces severe financial strains in coming decades as the massive baby-boom generation retires. "I fear that we may have already committed more physical resources to the baby-boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver. If existing promises need to be changed, those changes should be made sooner rather than later," Mr Greenspan said. He also warned that unless the nation sees unprecedented rises in productivity "retirement and health programmes would need "significant" changes. He called on Congress to cut promised benefits for retirees, as the promised benefits for the soon-to-retire baby boom generation were much larger than the government could afford. Meanwhile any move to narrow the deficit gap by raising taxes could pose a significant risk to the economy by dampening growth and spending, he added. He also urged Congress to reinstate lapsed rules that require tax cuts and spending to be offset elsewhere in the budget in an effort to prevent the US heading further into the red. Despite the dire warnings, Mr
Sixways Friday, 25 February 2000 GMT They make just one change, with Tim Collier replacing Phil Murphy in the second row. In contrast, Sale are missing 14 players due to a combination of international call-ups and injuries. John Payne and Chris Rhys Jones come into the centres while scrum-half Richard Wigglesworth looks set to play on the wing. Delport; Pieters, Rasmussen, Lombard, O'Leary; Brown, Powell; Windo, Van Niekerk, Horsman; Collier, Gillies; Hickey, Sanderson, MacLeod- Henderson. Replacements: Fortey, Murphy, Daly, Vaili, Cole, Hayes, Trueman. Hanley; Mayor, Payne, Rhys Jones, Wigglesworth; Hercus, Redpath (capt); Turner, Roddam, Stewart; Day, Schofield; Caillet, Carter, Chabal. Replacements (from): Bozzi, Coutts, Anglesea, Lund, Martens, Riley, Duffy, C Jones.
Six foreign-owned textile factories have closed in Lesotho, leaving 6,650 garment workers jobless, union officers told the AP news agency. Factory Workers Union secretary general Billy Macaefa blamed the closures on the end of worldwide textile quotas. The quotas for developing nations, ended on 1 January, gave them a set share of the rich countries' markets. They also limited the amount countries like China could export to the big markets of the United States and EU. "We understand that some (owners)... were complaining that the South African rand was strong against the US dollar, and they were losing when exporting textiles and clothing to the United States," Mr Macaefa said at a news briefing in the capital, Maseru. Lesotho's currency, the maloti, is fixed to the rand. "But we suspect that they left the country unceremoniously because of the end of quotas introduced by the World Trade Organization." He said the six factories were Leisure Garments, Modern Garments, Precious Six Garments, TW Garments, Lesotho Hats and Vogue Landmark. The owners - two from Taiwan, two from China, one from Mauritius and one from Malaysia - left over the December holiday period without informing or paying their employees, he said. Union leaders and trade campaigners have been warning that developing nations such as Lesotho, Sri Lanka, and Bangaldesh could lose thousands of jobs once the quotas were lifted. In the mountainous country surrounded by South Africa, it is feared as many as 50,000 textile workers could lose their jobs, and Mr
The US economy has grown more than expected, expanding at an annual rate of 3.8% in the last quarter of 2004. The gross domestic product figure was ahead of the 3.1% the government estimated a month ago. The rise reflects stronger spending by businesses on capital equipment and a smaller-than-expected trade deficit. GDP is a measure of a country's economic health, reflecting the value of the goods and services it produces. The new GDP figure, announced by the Commerce Department on Friday, also topped the 3.5% growth rate that economists had forecast ahead of Friday's announcement. Growth was at an annual rate of 4% in the third quarter of 2004 and for the year it came in at 4.4%, the best figure in five years. However, the positive economic climate may lead to a rise in interest rates, with many expecting US rates to rise on 22 March. In the January-to-March quarter, the economy is expected to grow at an annual rate of about 4%, economists forecast. In the final quarter of 2004, businesses increased spending on capital equipment and software by 18%, up from 17.5% in the third quarter. Consumer spending grew 4.2% in the final quarter, down from the third quarter's 5.1%.
Fiat will meet car giant General Motors (GM) on Tuesday in an attempt to reach agreement over the future of the Italian firm's loss-making auto group. Fiat claims that GM is legally obliged to buy the 90% of the car unit it does not already own; GM says the contract, signed in 2000, is no longer valid. Press reports have speculated that Fiat may be willing to accept a cash payment in return for dropping its claim. Both companies want to cut costs as the car industry adjusts to waning demand. The meeting between Fiat boss Sergio Marchionne and GM's Rick Wagoner is due to take place at 1330 GMT in Zurich, according to the Reuters news agency. Mr Marchionne is confident of his firm's legal position, saying in an interview with the Financial Times that GM's argument "has no legs". The agreement in question dates back to GM's decision to buy 20% of Fiat's auto division in 2000. At the time, it gave the Italian firm the right, via a 'put option', to sell the remaining stake to GM. In recent weeks, Fiat has reiterated its claims that this 'put' is still valid and legally binding. However, GM argues that a Fiat share sale made last year, which cut GM's holding to 10%, together with asset sales made by Fiat have terminated the agreement. Selling the Fiat's car-making unit may not prove so simple, analysts say, especially as it is a company that is so closely linked to Italy's
Jailed tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky has transferred his controlling stake in oil giant Yukos to a business partner. Mr Khodorkovsky handed over his entire 59.5% stake in holding company Group Menatep - which controls Yukos - to Leonid Nevzlin. A close ally of the ex-Yukos boss, Mr Nevzlin is currently based in Israel. Mr Khodorkovsky handed over his stake after the forced sale of Yukos' core oil production unit, Yuganskneftegaz to pay a giant tax bill. Yuganskneftegaz was sold off at auction in December last year, eventually falling into the hands of state oil firm Rosneft in a deal worth $9.4bn (£5bn). "Since the sale of Yuganskneftegaz, I have been delivered of (all) responsibility for the business that remains and the group's money as a whole," Mr Khodorkovsky said. "It is all over. As before, I see my future in public activity to build a civil society in Russia." Mr Nevzlin is Yukos' largest shareholder but is living in self-imposed exile in Israel. Yuganskneftegaz pumps around 1 million barrels of oil a day. It was sold by the Russian authorities to recover government tax claims against Yukos totalling over $27bn. Previously considered to be Russia's richest man, with an estimated fortune of $15bn, Mr Khodorkovsky is currently on trial for fraud and tax evasion following his arrest in October 2003. However, the charges are widely seen as politically motivated and part of a drive by Russian President Vladimir Putin to rein in the country's super-rich business leaders, the so-called oligarchs. It
India will allow domestic commercial airlines to fly long haul international routes, a move it hopes will stoke competition and drive down prices. However, only state controlled carriers will be able to fly the lucrative Gulf routes, to countries such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, for at least three years. Jet Airways and Air Sahara are the two companies that will benefit initially. India is looking to develop its airline industry as booming economic growth drives demand for travel. Monica Chadha, BBC Delhi reporter, said air travel in India had increased by almost 20% from the previous year and was expected to rise even further. Infrastructure development is lagging demand, however, and will have to improve. "Most international airports in the country are shabby and ill-equipped to handle heavy air traffic," Ms Chada said, adding that while the Civil Aviation minister has promised to modernise and privatise airports little progress has been made. Steps have been take to move things forward and the government recently changed legislation that limited foreign investment in domestic airlines. It raised the maximum stake holding allowed to 49% from 40%. Local press, meanwhile, have reported that the US and India will start negotiations about adding more routes in January. Jet Airways is India's premier private domestic carrier; Air Sahara is ranked third in the category.
Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren hopes that Stewart Downing did not seriously damage his hamstring during the 2-1 Uefa Cup win over Graz AK. The winger was carried off on a stretcher in the closing stages as Boro booked their place in the last 16. McClaren said: "Stewart has tweaked a hamstring, which is a blow for us. We will assess it in the morning. "But I'm delighted with the match result. They say in sport you can win ugly - and we certainly did." McClaren was relieved to make it through after a tough encounter at The Riverside. "To be fair to Graz, they had a gameplan - they knocked the ball forward, especially in the first half, and we struggled to deal with it. "In the second half we were better but it was frustrating because we got the goal - but one slip and they were back in it." Boro face Sporting Lisbon for a place in the quarter-finals after the Portuguese side saw off Feyenoord on Thursday. And McClaren added: "Sporting are technically very good - Portuguese sides always are. "But the journey goes on for us and we will now go to their magnificent stadium - after the first game here - we'll look forward to it." Goalscorer Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink added: "It wasn't a particularly beautiful match to watch - but they made it difficult for us. "We didn't play well at all. But you need a little bit of luck and I think we
Beyond the desperate security situation in Iraq lies an economy in tatters. A vicious cycle of unemployment, poor social services and poverty has been made worse by a lack of investment. So there is much hope that an elected government will break the deadlock. "First rule of law, then the economy," says Radwan Hadi, deputy managing director of Aberdeen-based oil and gas consultancy Blackwatch Petroleum Services, which entered Iraq in 2003. Mr Hadi's view about what the new government's priorities should be is shared by many Iraqis. The economy has become the second-most dominant issue for many political parties ahead of Sunday's election, according to Bristol University political scientist Anne Alexander, who is working on a project that looks at governance and security in post-war Iraq. Job creation ranks high both on election manifestos and on the Iraqi people's wish list. Nobody knows exactly how many Iraqis are out of work, but it is clear that the situation is dire. "Estimates of Iraq's unemployment rate vary, but we estimate it to be between 30-40%," the Washington-based independent think-tank The Brookings Institution says in its Iraq Index. But some progress has been made, largely thanks to the country's oil revenues which have exceeded $22bn since June 2003. Iraq's infrastructure is on the mend, with notable improvements having been made in areas such as electricity supply, irrigation, telephone networks and the re-opening of hospitals. But serious problems remain and the growing divide between haves and have-nots is angering voters. One Iraqi woman
Scientists have expressed concerns that new education secretary Ruth Kelly's religious views could hamper vital scientific research. Ms Kelly, who is Catholic, is reported to be "pro-life" and has opposed embryo research. Medical Research Council Professor Nancy Rothwell said Ms Kelly's views mattered as she was responsible for training future scientists. The Department for Education and Skills would not comment on the concerns. A spokeswoman said: "It is not news that Ms Kelly is a Catholic but we are not going into any details on this." But she added that claims Ms Kelly was in charge of a £1bn university research budget were not true. It was down to the Higher Education Funding Council and the research councils to decide on universities' research allocations. British law is open to the cloning of human embryos to create stem cells, master cells that can develop into all the body's tissue types. This cloning activity is not permitted for reproductive purposes - only for research into new disease treatments. However, it is controversial because it involves the destruction of embryos. Professor Rothwell, who is also vice-president of research at Manchester University, told the Times Higher Education Supplement it would worry her "a great deal" if ministers were anti-stem cell. She said: "The views of ministers in the DfES do matter as they are responsible for training the next generation of scientists. "You can't have a higher education policy that is at odds with the government's science policy." Head of developmental genetics at the
Model Caprice and Holby City actor Jeremy Edwards have both left the Celebrity Big Brother house in a surprise double eviction on Friday. Caprice, who left in the scheduled fourth eviction having gained just 5% of the public vote, afterwards said: "I am so happy, I am so glad I'm out." Edwards then left in a surprise eviction, with 12% of the vote. Nineteen-year-old Blazin' Squad singer Kenzie is currently favourite to win the £50,000 charity prize. Caprice had been the pre-show favourite to be voted out of the house, with bookmakers Ladbrokes offering odds of 1/5 on her departure. Ladbrokes spokesman Warren Lush had said she was "the hottest eviction favourite so far this series". Odds on Kenzie's victory have been slashed from 4/6 to 1/2, although bookmakers have said they are not ruling out a late rally from former Happy Mondays star Bez. The other remaining housemate is actress Brigitte Nielsen. DJ Lisa I'Anson became the third housemate to be voted out on Wednesday when she became the victim of a surprise eviction during a game of hide-and-seek on the Channel 4 show. I'Anson said she was "glad to be out" and predicted that Kenzie would emerge as the winner. The winner is due to be announced on Sunday night.
Labour has unveiled the four little words that will form the heart of its general election campaign which, for those just returned from the planet Galifray, is "looming". The slogan "Britain forward not back" (no, it's not an instruction from one of those inter-planetary Time Lords) is to become as much a part of our daily lives as the sky - it's always there but we mostly stop noticing. The word "Britain" is cast on a red background - a nod to Old Labour. "Forward" is in italics and cunningly slopes forward and, along with "not back", is set against a mushy pea green background. As one of the journalists assembled at the unveiling declared, it was all very post modern, or something. Great use of colour. Those ad men really do earn their money. And, coincidentally, the ad men who came up with the abandoned flying pigs and so-called "Fagin" posters which caused Tory protests have not been sacked but, as election supremo Alan Milburn declared, "are doing a very good job". Mr Milburn, in the latest in his series of pre-election-campaign campaigning, explained the slogan was the reaction to polling which suggests the public believe Labour and Tony Blair are the future while Michael Howard and the Tories would take the country backwards. "Not many people talk about the years before 1997 as the good old days," he declared. It would be an aggressive campaign because things would inevitably boil down to a choice between Labour and the
England forward Martin Corry says Jason Robinson is the right man to lead the national team back to winning ways. After losses to Wales and France, critics have started to wonder whether Robinson can captain from full-back. But Corry has backed Robinson, who was given the role after the injury to fly-half Jonny Wilkinson, ahead of this weekend's trip to Ireland. "Jason is doing a tremendous job. Every week my respect for him goes up," Corry told BBC Radio Five Live. "He is an inspirational captain. When he talks with the squad he talks with a lot of sense. "The players have a lot of respect for him. It's an honour to be in the England side and an honour to play under him." England are under immense pressure following their poor start to the year and victory is vital if they are to rescue their Six Nations campaign. But Corry insists England are in the right frame of mind for the contest. "There is apprehension going into every game," he added. "But you have to use that fear and put it into a positive mindset. "When the whistle goes on Sunday, what has happened in the past does not count for anything. "We have not performed but if we put in a performance on Sunday then we can start turning results around. "There are a lot of changes taking place with England and we are at the start of something. We have not got off to the greatest of
The UK Independence Party could take legal action to unseat two London Assembly members who defected to Robert Kilroy Silk's Veritas Party. Damian Hockney, now Veritas deputy leader, and Peter Hulme-Cross were elected in 2004 on the list system. The party argues the pair should give up their seats as they won them as UKIP representatives, not as individuals. Mr Hockney said the law was clear that those elected on a list who quit their party should keep their seats. UKIP chairman Petrina Holdsworth urged the men to step down from the GLA in a letter. She said: "The party has taken legal advice and it is clear that we could take legal proceedings against you which could result in the return of our seats and/or damages against you. "We would however like you to be given an opportunity to reflect on what you have done, to restore your own credibility with the electorate and return the seats to the party which won them fair and square at the last election." Mr Hockney said the law worked in exactly the same way for the GLA as it did for other electoral list systems. "The Greater London Act is clear that if someone resigns who was elected on a list, their party whip the seat belongs to them and not the party." He said Mr Hulme-Cross and himself had no intention of resigning and added that they felt that it was UKIP who were not being true to the electorate. He
For the umpteenth time, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are said to have declared all out war on each other. This time the alleged rift is over who should take the credit for the government's global aid and debt initiatives, particularly in the wake of the tsunami disaster - an issue many hoped and believed was above such things. It dominated the prime minister's monthly news conference, which saw Mr Blair start in full irritation mode as he was forced to bat away question after question about his relationship with his neighbour. As he told journalists: "I am not interested in what goes in and out of newspapers. There is a complete unity of purpose." And he again heaped praise on Mr Brown saying he was doing a great job, and would continue doing it - although he would not commit to any job for Mr Brown after the election. So why did he arrange his press conference at the last moment so it coincided with Mr Brown's long-arranged keynote speech on aid and debt, he was asked? By now Mr Blair had moved from irritation mode to his barely disguised fury setting. He snapped back that the hacks knew very well what the operational reasons were for the timing of his press conference. Well, not really, as it happens. And he repeated what a great man Gordon was and how united they were, before again sneering that he took absolutely no notice of what went in and out of
Four African players, including Zimbabwe goalkeeper Energy Murambadoro, are all ready to play for Israeli club Hapoel Bnei Sakhnin in the Uefa Cup. Bnei Sakhnin are the first Arab side ever to play in European competition and will play English Premiership side Newcastle United in the first round. Warriors' goalkeeper Murambadoro, who made a name for himself at the African Nations Cup finals in Tunisia, helped Bnei Sakhnin overcome Albania's Partizani Tirana 6-1 in the previous round. Murambadoro moved to Israel recently after a brief stint with South African club Hellenic. The club won the Israeli Cup final last season and are based in Sakhnin, which is near Haifa. The club have a strong ethic and are high profile promoters of peace and co-operation within Israel. The three other Africans at the club are former Cameroon defender Ernest Etchi, DR Congo's Alain Masudi and Nigerian midfielder Edith Agoye, who had a stint with Tunisian side Esperance.
Celtic's Neil Lennon admits Rangers could be considered "slight favourites" for the Old Firm CIS Cup clash, but insists his side can still win. Lennon concedes Rangers are in good form at the moment, but they have failed to beat Celtic in their last seven meetings. "Rangers are on the up and have been on a good run in recent weeks," he said. "But it's a game we believe we're capable of winning if we play our best," he told the Evening Times. "All the boys are looking forward to it because they are brilliant games to be involved in. "Without playing at the top of our game, we have still been winning matches. "At the minute, we are at the top of the league and still in with a chance of staying in Europe, so I don't think it is the crisis people have been trying to make out. "Of course, it is a concern when you are losing goals, because we have been notorious for being a team that is hard to beat and keeping clean sheets, but hopefully we are over that wee run. "Considering we lost Henrik Larsson at the end of last season, we have still been scoring a lot of goals, which is pleasing."
Boss Sir Alex Ferguson was left ruing Manchester United's failure to close the gap on Chelsea, Everton and Arsenal after his side's 1-1 draw with Fulham. Premiership leaders Chelsea and the Gunners endured a 2-2 stalemate on Sunday, giving United the chance to make up some ground in the league. But Ferguson said: "I think what makes it so bad is that both our rivals dropped points at the weekend. "It was a great opportunity - and we haven't delivered." United went ahead through Alan Smith in the 33rd minute before Bouba Diop's superb 25-yard strike cancelled out the visitors' lead in the 87th minute. Ferguson described the result as an "absolute giveaway" after United had earlier missed a host of opportunities to finish off the encounter. He said: "It was a good performance - some of the football was fantastic - but we just didn't finish them off. "In fairness, it's a fantastic strike from the Fulham player." The result leaves Ferguson's side fourth in the league on 31 points - four points behind Arsenal and a further five back from Chelsea.
Tate & Lyle's chief executive has been named European Businessman of the Year by a leading business magazine. Iain Ferguson was awarded the title by US publication Forbes for returning one of the UK's "venerable" manufacturers to the country's top 100 companies. The sugar group had been absent from the FTSE 100 for seven years until Mr Ferguson helped it return to growth. Tate's shares have leapt 55% this year, boosted by firming sugar prices and sales of its artificial sweeteners. "After years of a sagging stock price and a seven-year hiatus from the FTSE 100, one of Britain's venerable manufacturers has returned to the vaunted index," Forbes said. Mr Ferguson took the helm at the company in 2003, after spending most of his career at consumer goods giant Unilever. Tate & Lyle, which was an original member of the historic FT-30 index in 1935, operates more than 41 factories and 20 more additional production facilities in 28 countries. Previous winners of the Forbes award include Royal Bank of Scotland chief executive Fred Goodwin and former Vodafone boss Chris Gent.
Interactive posters are helping Londoners get around the city during the festive season. When interrogated with a mobile phone, the posters pass on a number that people can call to get information about the safest route home. Sited at busy underground stations, the posters are fitted with an infra-red port that can beam information directly to a handset. The posters are part of Transport for London's Safe Travel at Night campaign. The campaign is intended to help Londoners, especially women, avoid trouble on the way home. In particular it aims to cut the number of sexual assaults by drivers of unlicensed minicabs. Nigel Marson, head of group marketing at Transport for London (TfL), said the posters were useful because they work outside the mobile phone networks. "They can work in previously inaccessible areas such as underground stations which is obviously a huge advantage in a campaign of this sort," he said. The posters will automatically beam information to any phone equipped with an IR port that is held close to the glowing red icon on the poster. "We started with infra-red because there are a huge number IR phones out there," said Rachel Harker, spokeswoman for Hypertag which makes the technology fitted to the posters. "It's a well established technology." Hypertag is also now making a poster that uses short-range Bluetooth radio technology to swap data. Although the hypertags in the posters only pass on a phone number, Ms Harker said they can pass on almost any form of data
Director Quentin Tarantino is in talks to write and direct a new instalment in the Friday the 13th horror franchise, according to the Hollywood Reporter. The film-maker will reportedly meet executives from New Line Cinema this week to discuss the 12th film in the long-running 'stalk and slash' series. The original film, released in 1980, has spawned ten sequels based around mask-wearing murderer Jason Voorhees. The most recent, Freddy Vs Jason, was released in summer 2003. That film saw Jason battle Freddy Krueger, star of the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise. According to the industry newspaper, New Line had been trying to make another sequel involving Ash, the hero of the Evil Dead movies, but was unable to agree terms with director Sam Raimi. Tarantino is said to be intrigued by the prospect of building a new film around one of the horror genre's most recognised figures. First, however, he is scheduled to direct the season finale of US television series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. Filming is due to start in early April. Tarantino's episode, for which he also wrote the original story, will be broadcast in the US on 19 May.
Bill Gates has opened the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, saying that gadgets are working together more to help people manage multimedia content around the home and on the move. Mr Gates made no announcement about the next generation Xbox games console, which many gadget lovers had been hoping for. About 120,000 people are expected to attend the trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet and runs from 6 to 9 January. The latest trends in digital imaging, storage technologies, thinner flat screen and high-definition TVs, wireless and portable technologies, gaming, and broadband technologies will all be on show over the three days. Mr Gates said that a lot of work had been done in the last year to sort out usability and compatibility issues between devices to make it easier to share content. "We predicted at the beginning of the decade that the digital approach would be taken for granted - but there was a lot of work to do. "What is fun is to come to the show and see what has been done. It is going even faster than we expected and we are excited about it." He highlighted technology trends over the last year that had driven the need to make technology and transferring content across difference devices "seamless". "Gaming is becoming more of a social thing and all of the social genres will use this rich communications. "And if we look at what has been going on with e-mail,
The inclusion of downloaded music in the official singles chart has been delayed for a month. The British Phonographic Industry (BPI) had planned to include download formats in the chart from 20 March. But the date has been put back to 17 April to create a "level playing field" for independent labels. The BPI is concerned that independent repertoire is not adequately represented online and said they were looking at ways of rectifying it. BPI chairman Peter Jamieson said: "The inclusion of download formats in the Official UK Singles Chart is the most significant development in the charts for 20 years. "But for a multitude of reasons the current chart representation of independent repertoire at the major download outlets is poor. "I am very pleased we have secured this delay on behalf of independents. We have to try and establish a realistic 'level playing field' of opportunity. The Official UK Charts are run by The Official UK Charts Company (OCC) - a joint venture between the BPI and the British Association of Record Dealers (BARD). At an OCC board meeting on Wednesday, the OCC board agreed with BPI members that the 20 March start date be postponed. Download formats will now be included in the Official UK Singles Chart for the first time in the chart published on 17 April - the sales week beginning 10 April. The US has already merged downloaded singles into its Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Japanese electronics firm Hitachi has unveiled its first humanoid robot, called Emiew, to challenge Honda's Asimo and Sony's Qrio robots. Hitachi said the 1.3m (4.2ft) Emiew was the world's quickest-moving robot yet. Two wheel-based Emiews, Pal and Chum, introduced themselves to reporters at a press conference in Japan. The robots will be guests at the World Expo later this month. Sony and Honda have both built sophisticated robots to show off developments in electronics. Explaining why Hitachi's Emiew used wheels instead of feet, Toshihiko Horiuchi, from Hitachi's Mechanical Engineering Research Laboratory, said: "We aimed to create a robot that could live and co-exist with people." "We want to make the robots useful for people ... If the robots moved slower than people, users would be frustrated." Emiew - Excellent Mobility and Interactive Existence as Workmate - can move at 3.7m/h. Its "wheel feet" resemble the bottom half of a Segway scooter. With sensors on the head, waist, and near the wheels, Pal and Chum demonstrated how they could react to commands. "I want to be able to walk about in places like Shinjuku and Shibuya [shopping districts] in the future without bumping into people and cars," Pal told reporters. Hitachi said Pal and Chum, which have a vocabulary of about 100 words, could be "trained" for practical office and factory use in as little as five to six years. Robotics researchers have long been challenged by developing robots that walk in the gait of a human. At the recent AAAS
All four Britons held by the US in Guantanamo Bay will be returned to the UK within weeks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw told the Commons on Tuesday. Moazzam Begg, from Birmingham, and Martin Mubanga, Richard Belmar and Feroz Abbasi, from London, have been held by the US for almost three years. They were detained in the Cuban camp as part of the US-led "war on terror". Mr Straw said the US had agreed to release the four after "intensive and complex discussions" over security. He said the government had been negotiating the return of the detainees since 2003. All four families have been informed of their return and have been involved in regular discussions with the government, Mr Straw said. But he added: "Once they are back in the UK, the police will consider whether to arrest them under the Terrorism Act 2000 for questioning in connection with possible terrorist activity." The shadow foreign secretary, Michael Ancram, welcomed the return of the four detainees. But he said there were still "serious questions" both over the possible threat the four pose to the UK, and the treatment they received while detained. Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Sir Menzies Campbell said the four had been rescued from a "legal no-man's land". "Their civil rights were systematically and deliberately abused and they were denied due process." Azmat Begg, father of Moazzam, thanked his lawyers and the British people for the support he had received while campaigning for his son's release. He added: "If
A Norwegian student who ran a website which linked to downloadable MP3 files has been ordered to pay compensation by the country's Supreme Court. Frank Allan Bruvik was ordered to pay 100,000 kroner (£8,000) to the music industry in Norway. He was a student when he set up his napster.no site, which allowed users to submit and receive links to MP3 files. Bruvik had earlier been cleared on appeal after a lower court had found for the music industry. Music industry bosses in Norway said the ruling would help build confidence in the internet as a distribution medium. Frank Allan Bruvik set up the napster.no website as part of a school project in 2001 while studying computer engineering in the Norwegian town of Lillehammer. The website was not associated with the napster.com site in the USA, which had been operating since 1999 and was already facing legal action. Bruvik's site was online between August and November 2001, and while it did not host any music, at its peak it was providing links to more than 170 free files on other servers. As well as providing links, the site allowed those visiting it to submit links that could later be accessed by other visitors. A legal complaint for copyright violation was filed by groups including Norway's performing rights society, Tono, and the Norwegian branches of Sony Music and Universal Music, who saw it as an important test of principle. A Norwegian court ruled in 2003 that Bruvik would have to pay
The last film to be made by the slain Dutch director Theo van Gogh, called 06/05, has been premiered in The Hague. Members of Van Gogh's family and celebrities attended the screening of 06/05, based on the murder of the anti-immigration politician Pim Fortuyn. Van Gogh was shot and stabbed to death in Amsterdam six weeks ago. A Dutch-Moroccan man suspected of radical Islamist links has been charged. The killing, and Fortuyn's death in 2002, convulsed the Netherlands. Many Dutch people have questioned their country's self-image as a peaceful, tolerant nation in the wake of the murders, which triggered heated debate about immigration. An animal rights activist was sentenced to 18 years in prison last year for killing Fortuyn. Earlier this year, Van Gogh made a film accusing Islam of promoting violence against women. It caused outrage among Muslims and death threats were made against him. The film 06/05 will become available on the internet on Wednesday and go on general release in Dutch cinemas in January. Van Gogh's movie mixes real images of the day of Fortuyn's murder with a fictional plot about Dutch intelligence services conspiring to silence the politician. The story unfolds through the eyes of a freelance photographer who unwittingly takes pictures revealing the involvement of Dutch authorities in Fortuyn's murder. Photographer Jim de Booy then goes on the run from secret service agents who burgle his home and threaten his family.
Brazil's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in three years in December, according to the government. The Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (IBGE) said it fell to 9.6% in December from 10.6% in November and 10.9% in December 2003. IBGE also said that average monthly salaries grew 1.9% in December 2004 from December 2003. However, average monthly wages fell 1.8% in December to 895.4 reais ($332; £179.3) from November. Tuesday's figures represent the first time that the unemployment rate has fallen to a single digit since new measurement rules were introduced in 2001. The unemployment rate has been falling gradually since April 2004 when it reached a peak of 13.1%. The jobless rate average for the whole of 2004 was 11.5%, down from 12.3% in 2003, the IBGE said. This improvement can be attributed to the country's strong economic growth, with the economy registering growth of 5.2% in 2004, the government said. The economy is expected to grow by about 4% this year. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva promised to reduce unemployment when he was elected two years ago. Nevertheless, some analysts say that unemployment could increase in the next months. "The data is favourable, but a lot of jobs are temporary for the (Christmas) holiday season, so we may see slightly higher joblessness in January and February," Julio Hegedus, chief economist with Lopes Filho & Associates consultancy in Rio de Janeir, told Reuters news agency. Despite his leftist background, President Lula has pursued a surprisingly conservative
The web looks very different today than it did 10 years ago. Back in 1994, Yahoo had only just launched, most websites were text-based and Amazon, Google and eBay had yet to appear. But, says usability guru Dr Jakob Nielsen, some things have stayed constant in that decade, namely the principles of what makes a site easy to use. Dr Nielsen has looked back at a decade of work on usability and considered whether the 34 core guidelines drawn up back then are relevant to the web of today. "Roughly 80% of the things we found 10 years ago are still an issue today," he said. "Some have gone away because users have changed and 10% have changed because technology has changed." Some design crimes, such as splash screens that get between a user and the site they are trying to visit, and web designers indulging their artistic urges have almost disappeared, said Dr Nielsen. "But there's great stability on usability concerns," he told the BBC News website. Dr Nielsen said the basic principles of usability, centring around ease of use and clear thinking about a site's total design, were as important as ever. "It's necessary to be aware of these things as issues because they remain as such," he said. They are still important because the net has not changed as much as people thought it would. "A lot of people thought that design and usability was only a temporary problem because broadband was taking off," he said. "But
Andrew Murray will become Britain's youngest-ever Davis Cup player after it was confirmed he will play in the doubles against Israel on Saturday. The 17-year-old will play alongside fellow debutant David Sherwood against Israel's Jonathan Erlich and Andy Ram. Murray will eclipse the record set by Roger Becker back in 1952. Greg Rusedski takes Tim Henman's place as first choice in the singles, while Alex Bogdanovic will play in the second singles clash. Rusedski will take on former world number 30 Harel Levy and Bogdanovic - who has previously played in two singles rubbers against Australia - will face Noam Okun. Murray is the brightest young hope in British tennis, after winning the US Open junior title last year and the BBC Young Sports Personality of the Year. British number one Tim Henman, who announced his Davis Cup retirement earlier this year, believes Britain can win the tie in Tel Aviv. "It's going to be as really tough match. Israel have some really good players - and their doubles pair of Andy Ram and Jonathan Erlich are among the top eight in the world - but I fancy our chances," he said. But Henman urged Bogdanovic, who has had run-ins with British tennis officials in the past, to seize his chance. "Alex is a quality player - he's young but he's got to keep pushing forward. "He's got to be stronger, he's got a lot of ability but he's got to be more disciplined mentally and physically and if he
Jo Pavey will miss January's View From Great Edinburgh International Cross Country to focus on preparing for the European Indoor Championships in March. The 31-year-old was third behind Hayley Yelling and Justyna Bak in last week's European Cross Country Championships but she prefers to race on the track. "It was great winning bronze but I'm wary of injuries and must concentrate on the indoor season," she said. "Because of previous injuries I don't even run up hills in training." Pavey, who came fifth in the 5,000m at the Athens Olympics, helped the British cross country team win the team silver medal in Heringsdorf last week. She is likely to start her 3,000m season with a race in either Boston or Stuttgart at the end of January.
The Conservatives' campaign director has denied a report claiming he warned Michael Howard the party could not win the next general election. The Times on Monday said Australian Lynton Crosby told the party leader to focus on trying to increase the Tories' Commons presence by 25 to 30 seats. But Mr Crosby said in a statement: "I have never had any such conversation... and I do not hold that view." Mr Howard later added there was not "one iota" of truth in the report. The strategist helped Australia's PM, John Howard, win four elections. Mr Howard appointed Mr Crosby as his elections chief last October. Mr Crosby's statement said: "The Conservative Party has been making an impact on the issues of lower tax and controlled immigration over the past week." It added: "The Labour Party will be wanting to do all they can to distract attention away from the issues that really matter to people."
Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer. The club's managing director, Keith Edelman, stressed that the development of their new £350m stadium had no affect on Wenger's spending power. "The money is there. Don't worry we've got it," Edelman told BBC Sport. "Hopefully, we'll spend it this summer and in the coming years. Arsene attends all our board meetings and he knows our finances are very strong." Edelman added that it was pointless having a brand new stadium if the team did not match the surroundings. "Its great to have nice, new surroundings, but if the team aren't performing on the pitch, then there isn't great respect in having a fabulous stadium," he said. "It's important that we had sufficient funds for our team in place, before we began on the stadium."
The Japanese economy has officially gone back into recession for the fourth time in a decade. Gross domestic product fell by 0.1% in the last three months of 2004. The fall reflects weak exports and a slowdown in consumer spending, and follows similar falls in GDP in the two previous quarters. The Tokyo stock market fell after the figures were announced, but rose again on a widespread perception that the economy will recover later this year. On Wednesday, the government revised growth figures from earlier in 2004 which, when taking into account performance in the most recent period, effectively tips Japan into recession. A previous estimate of 0.1% growth between July and September was downgraded to a 0.3% decline. A recession is commonly defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth, although the Japanese government takes other factors into account when judging the status of its economy. Figures released by the government's Cabinet Office showed that GDP, on an annualised basis, fell 0.5% in the last three months of 2004. However, politicians remain upbeat about prospects for an economic boost later in the year. "The economy has some soft patches but if you look at the bigger picture, it is in a recovery stage," said Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister Heizo Takenaka. Gross domestic product measures the overall value of goods and services produced in a country. "The economy must be assessed comprehensively and we cannot look at GDP alone," Mr Takenaka stressed. Ministers pointed to the fact that consumer
Householders who injure or even kill intruders are unlikely to be prosecuted - providing they were acting "honestly and instinctively", new guidelines say. The law also protects those who use "something to hand" as a weapon. The leaflet, published by police and prosecutors, aims to combat confusion about current legislation, which lets people use "reasonable force". The guidance, relating to England and Wales, follows a recent decision by ministers not to change the law. Doing what you "honestly and instinctively" believed was necessary would be the strongest evidence of acting lawfully, the guidance said. And the law protects those who use "something to hand" as a weapon, said the leaflet published jointly by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) and Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO). As a general rule, the more extreme the circumstances and fear felt, the more force can be used lawfully in self-defence, it said, adding that householders do not have to wait to be attacked before defending themselves. But knocking someone unconscious then killing them or hurting them further, or setting a trap for an intruder without involving the police were given as examples of "excessive and gratuitous" force. The Tories have called for a change in the law so householders are only prosecuted if they use "grossly disproportionate" force. Their demands have been backed by former Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens. Tory frontbencher Patrick Mercer is now pursuing the proposal through a private member's bill in Parliament. The government instead mounted a publicity campaign
The body that represents the US movie industry has released its latest tool in its campaign to clamp down on movie file-sharing, aimed at parents. The Movie Association for America's (MPAA) free Parent File Scan software lets parents check their children's computers for peer-to-peer programs. It will also list all movie and music files they have on their hard drive. Parents then have the choice to remove programs and files. The MPAA said files found would not be passed on to it. "Our ultimate goal is to help consumers locate the resources and information they need to make appropriate decisions about using and trading illegal files," said Dan Glickman, MPAA chief. "Many parents are concerned about what their children have downloaded and where they've downloaded it from." But some computer users who had tested the latest software reported on some technology sites that the program had identified Windows default wav files as copyrighted material and wanted to delete them. Movie piracy cost the industry £3.7bn ($7bn) in 2003, according to analysts. The MPAA said in a statement that it would continue to provide easy access to similar tools in the coming months to combat "the deleterious effects of peer-to-peer software, including such common problems as viruses, Trojan horses and identity theft". Mr Glickman said that the film industry was embracing "digital age technologies", like Movielink and CinemaNow, which are legal movie sites. "But legal services such as these need a chance to grow and thrive without having to compete against
Actress Nicole Kidman has won a restraining order against two paparazzi photographers who she claims left her fearful of leaving her Sydney mansion. The Oscar-winning star took action against Jamie Fawcett and Ben McDonald after a bugging device was found outside her home earlier this week. Lawyers for the pair denied allegations they had planted the device. The Australian actress is currently in Sydney to film her latest movie, Eucalyptus, with Russell Crowe. Kidman was prompted to take action following a reported high-speed car chase with members of the paparazzi in Sydney last weekend. According to local newspaper the Daily Telegraph, the incident involved paparazzi driving through red lights and on the wrong side of the road in pursuit of Kidman's vehicle. Lawyers for Mr Fawcett and Mr McDonald denied that the pair were involved in the chase. Kidman sought the "apprehended violence" orders - normally used in Australia in cases of domestic violence and similar incidents - after being advised to do so by local police. "Nicole would like to make it clear that she acknowledges she is a public figure and that reporters and photographers have a job to do and she respects that," said Kidman's publicist Wendy Day. "However, these are specific actions against two individuals who, over a period of time, have caused her to feel threatened, intimidated and unable to leave her home without fearing for her safety." Magistrate Lee Gilmore, who issued the restraining order at Waverley Local Court in Sydney, said she understood
A next generation DVD technology backed by Sony has received a major boost. Film giant Disney says it will produce its future DVDs using Sony's Blu-ray Disc technology, but has not ruled out a rival format developed by Toshiba. The two competing DVD formats, Blu-ray developed by Sony and others, and Toshiba's HD-DVD, have been courting top film studios for several months. The next generation of DVDs promises very high quality pictures and sound, as well as a lot of data. Both technologies use a blue laser to write information. It has a shorter wavelength so more data can be stored. Disney is the latest studio to announce which technology it is backing in a format battle which mirrors the 1980s Betamax versus VHS war. Sony lost out to JVC in that fight. The current battle for Hollywood's hearts and minds is a crucial one because high-definition films will bring in billions of revenue and the studios would prefer to use one standard. Last month, Paramount, Universal and Warner Brothers said they were opting for the Toshiba and NEC-backed format, HD-DVD high-definition discs. Those studios currently produce about 45% of DVD content. Sony Pictures Entertainment and MGM Studios have already staked their allegiance with the Blu-ray Disc Association, whose members also include technology companies Dell, Samsung and Matsushita. Twentieth Century Fox is still to announce which technology it will be supporting. If Fox decided to go with Blu-ray too, it would mean the format would have a 47% share of
The number of mortgages approved in the UK has risen for the first time since May last year, according to lending figures from the Bank of England. New loans in December rose to 83,000, slightly higher than November's nine-year low of 77,000. Mortgage lending rose by £7.1bn in December, up from a £6.4bn rise in November. The figures contradict a survey from the British Bankers' Association, which said approvals were at a five-year low. Analysts say the figures show the market may be stabilising but still point to further house price softness. "The modest rise in mortgage approvals and lending in December reinforces the impression that the housing market is currently slowing steadily rather than sharply," said Global Insight analyst Howard Archer, commenting on the BoE's figures. The BBA believes that the property market is continuing to cool down. Changes to mortgage regulation may have artificially depressed figures in November, thus flattering the December figures, analysts said. In October last year, new rules came into force, which meant some lenders were forced to withdraw mortgage products temporarily in November and defer some lending until they had made sure they had complied with the rules properly. Separately, the Bank of England said that consumer credit rose by £1.5bn in December, more than the £1.4bn expected and above the £1.4bn reported in the previous month.
European leaders say Asian states must let their currencies rise against the US dollar to ease pressure on the euro. The European single currency has shot up to successive all-time highs against the dollar over the past few months. Tacit approval from the White House for the weaker greenback, which could help counteract huge deficits, has helped trigger the move. But now Europe says the euro has had enough, and Asia must now share some of the burden. China is seen as the main culprit, with exports soaring up 35% in 2004 partly on the back of a currency pegged to the dollar. "Asia should engage in greater currency flexibility," said French finance minister Herve Gaymard, after a meeting with his German counterpart Hans Eichel. Markets responded by pushing the euro lower, in the expectation that the rhetoric - and the pressure - is unlikely to ease ahead of a meeting of the G7 industrialised countries next week. Early on Tuesday morning, the dollar had edged higher to 1.3040 euros. The yen, meanwhile, had strengthened to 102.975 against the dollar by 0730 GMT.
Merle Kilgore, co-writer of the country hit Ring of Fire, has died of congestive heart failure aged 70. He started out as a singer and songwriter before going into music management, looking after country star Hank Williams Jr. He wrote Ring of Fire with June Carter Cash, the future wife of Johnny Cash who went on to score his most popular hit with the track. Kilgore had heart surgery in 2004 and was also diagnosed with lung cancer. His death has been attributed to treatment he was undergoing for the cancer. His first self-penned top 10 hit was Dear Mama in 1959. One of the first songs he wrote for other artists was Wolverton Mountain, which sold 10 million copies when recorded by Claude King. He then wrote Ring of Fire with June Carter Cash, which was about her unrequited love for Johnny, who she later married. It was first recorded by her younger sister Anita Carter before Johnny went on to make such a success of it. June Carter Cash previously said it upset her husband when Kilgore talked about the song without crediting her and believed he should not have been credited on it. Last year, Kilgore turned up an awards dinner in a wheelchair expecting to honour Hank Williams Jr, but instead he was the surprise recipient of a lifetime achievement award from the International Entertainment Buyers Association.
Wipro, India's third-biggest software firm, has reported a 60% rise in profit, topping market expectations. Net income in the last quarter was 4.3bn rupees ($98m; £52m), against 2.7bn a year earlier. Profit had been forecast to be 4.1bn rupees. Wipro offers services such as call centres to foreign clients and has worked for more than half of the companies on the Fortune 500 list. Wipro said demand was strong, allowing it to increase the prices it charged. "On the face of it, the results don't look very exciting," said Apurva Shah, an analyst at ASK-Raymond James. "But the guidance is positive and pricing going up is good news." Third-quarter sales rose 34% to 20.9bn rupees. One problem identified by Wipro was the high turnover of its staff. It said that 90% of employees at its business process outsourcing operations had had to be replaced. "We have to get that under control," said vice-chairman Vivek Paul. Wipro is majority owned by India's richest man Azim Premji.
India has signed a $40bn (£21bn) deal to import millions of tonnes of liquefied natural gas from Iran. Firms led by the Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) will also assist in the development of Iranian oil fields. Ministers, eager to gain access to energy supplies to meet the demands of a booming economy, secured a similar deal to one between Iran and China. The announcement comes as ONGC said it was in talks to buy former assets of troubled Russian oil firm Yukos. The agreements with Iran were sealed after talks in New Delhi between Middle East producers and Asia's biggest energy consumers - China, India, Japan and South Korea. Iran - Opec's second-biggest oil producer and one of the world's top gas producers - has been pursuing a series of deals, rewarding LNG buyers with participation in development of its oil fields. Under the agreement, it will supply India with 7.5 million tonnes of LPG annually over a 25 year period from 2009. ONGC and the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) reached a preliminary deal for Indian firms to take part in the development of the Yadavaran and Jufeyr oilfields, both countries said in a statement. India's oil production has stagnated over recent years, and it is having to look abroad to secure future supplies. India imports about 70% of its total oil consumption. Consumption has jumped to 2.4 million barrels per day, compared with 474,000 bpd in 1973.
George Michael is to perform live at London's Abbey Road studios as part of a BBC Radio 2 special next month. The session, which will broadcast on 18 December, will also see him talk about how his biggest hits came about. Michael's appearance is part of the station's Sold on Song initiative, which explores the art of songwriting. The station also confirmed that Chris Tarrant will be hosting a one-off New Year's Eve programme. He left London's Capital FM this year after 17 years. The former breakfast show host - who attracted some of the highest ratings in Britain, despite only broadcasting to London - will offer his own individual take on the year in the two-hour show. "This should be great fun," Tarrant said. "I've had a fantastic year and I know that lots of other people have as well. I'm definitely looking forward to being on Radio 2." Other Christmas specials from Radio 2 include singer Jamelia hosting a Christmas Day concert from the London Community Gospel Choir, while actor Christopher Lee will read Fireside Tales from the likes of Edgar Allan Poe, E Nesbit and Ambrose Bierce. Comedian Harry Hill will host a spoof nostalgia show on Christmas Day, while singer Jamie Cullum will perform a live concert for the station.
Hiding women away in the home hidden behind veils is a backward view of Islam, President Musharraf of Pakistan has said during a visit to Britain. He was speaking to the BBC's Newsnight programme a few hours before visiting the Pakistani community in Manchester. "My wife is travelling around. She is very religious but she is very moderate," said General Musharraf. It comes after Pakistan's High Commissioner to Britain said some Pakistanis should integrate more. Dr Maleeha Lodhi said people could not expect others to listen to their grievances if they isolated themselves. Gen Musharraf told the BBC: "Some people think that the women should be confined to their houses and put veils on and all that and they should not move out - absolutely wrong." The Pakistani president was also asked whether he thought the war on terror had made the world less safe. "Yes, absolutely. And I would add that unfortunately we are not addressing the core problems, so therefore we can never address it in its totality," he said. "We are fighting it in its immediate context but we are not fighting it in its strategic long-term context. "It is the political disputes and we need to resolve them, and also the issue of illiteracy and poverty. This combined are breeding grounds of extremism and terrorism." On Monday the Pakistani president met Prime Minister Tony Blair at 10 Downing Street, on his first official visit to London. He is due to visit the Pakistani community in Manchester
Tottenham are primed to snap up Iceland Under-21 international Emil Hallfredsson after he impressed on trial at White Hart Lane. The 20-year-old midfielder, who plays for FH Hafnarfjordur, also starred in the Uefa Cup match against Scottish side Dunfermline earlier this season. Spurs have agreed a fee for the player, who has yet to agree personal terms. "He had offers from two other clubs but he decided to come to Tottenham," said Spurs sporting director Frank Arnesen. "He is a left-sided player, a position we have been looking at and he showed so much talent in his time here that we decided to take him. "It's down the road of bringing in talent, good prospects and giving them a place at Tottenham where they can improve."
Wayne Rooney made a winning return to Everton as Manchester United cruised into the FA Cup quarter-finals. Rooney received a hostile reception, but goals in each half from Quinton Fortune and Cristiano Ronaldo silenced the jeers at Goodison Park. Fortune headed home after 23 minutes before Ronaldo scored when Nigel Martyn parried Paul Scholes' free-kick. Marcus Bent missed Everton's best chance when Roy Carroll, who was later struck by a missile, saved at his feet. Rooney's return was always going to be a potential flashpoint, and he was involved in an angry exchange with a spectator even before kick-off. And Rooney's every touch was met with a deafening chorus of jeers from the crowd that once idolised the 19-year-old. Everton started brightly and Fortune needed to be alert to scramble away a header from Bent near the goal-line. But that was the cue for United to take complete control with a supreme passing display on a Goodison Park pitch that was cutting up. Fortune gave United the lead after 23 minutes, rising to meet Ronaldo's cross from eight yards after the Portuguese youngster had been allowed too much time and space by the hapless Gary Naysmith. United dominated without creating too many clear-cut chances, and they almost paid the price for not making the most of their domination two minutes before half-time. Mikel Arteta played a superb ball into the area but Bent, played onside by Gabriel Heintze, hesitated and Carroll plunged at his fee to save. United almost doubled
India and Russia are to work together in a series of energy deals, part of a pact which could see India invest up to $20bn in oil and gas projects. On the agenda are oil and gas extraction as well as transportation deals, to be led by Russian energy giant Gazprom and India's ONGC. The Indian firm is also expected to hold talks on Tuesday about buying a stake in assets once owned by Yukos. It is reported to be keen on buying a 15% stake in oil unit Yuganskneftegas. The former Yukos subsidiary was controversially sold off last year and eventually acquired by state-owned energy giant Rosneft. Russian media reported that India and Russia signed a memorandum of understanding on energy co-operation on Tuesday during a meeting between Oil and Natural Gas Corporation chairman Subir Raha, Gazprom chairman Aleksey Miller and India's petroleum minister Mani Shankar Aiyar. The agreement is likely to see the two companies develop refining facilities in Russia, India and elsewhere and organise delivery of oil, gas and petrochemicals from Russia to India and other countries across Asia. ONGC could invest in gas and oil fields in Sakhalin, in the far east of Russia, and may also take part in joint tender bids for projects in eastern Siberia and the Caspian Sea. India is urgently searching for fresh energy supplies - particularly liquefied natural gas - as domestic demand is growing at more than 5% a year. ONGC's Mr Raha said the two could work together
Pop singer Delta Goodrem has scooped one of the top individual prizes at the first Australian MTV Music Awards. The 21-year-old singer won the award for best female artist, with Australian Idol runner-up Shannon Noll taking the title of best male at the ceremony. Goodrem, known in both Britain and Australia for her role as Nina Tucker in TV soap Neighbours, also performed a duet with boyfriend Brian McFadden. Other winners included Green Day, voted best group, and the Black Eyed Peas. Goodrem, Green Day and the Black Eyed Peas took home two awards each. As well as best female, Goodrem also took home the Pepsi Viewers Choice Award, whilst Green Day bagged the prize for best rock video for American Idiot. The Black Eyed Peas won awards for best R 'n' B video and sexiest video, both for Hey Mama. Local singer and songwriter Missy Higgins took the title of breakthrough artist of the year, with Australian Idol winner Guy Sebastian taking the honours for best pop video. The VH1 First Music Award went to Cher honouring her achievements within the music industry. The ceremony was held at the Luna Park fairground in Sydney Harbour and was hosted by the Osbourne family. Artists including Carmen Electra, Missy Higgins, Kelly Osbourne, Green Day, Ja Rule and Natalie Imbruglia gave live performances at the event.
Star Trek fans have taken out a full-page ad in the Los Angeles Times in an attempt to persuade TV executives not to scrap Star Trek: Enterprise. Made by the UPN TV network, the latest spin-off from the hit sci-fi show is due to end in May after four series. But fans around the world have pitched in to pay for the advert, which had the headline "Save Star Trek". They are also asking the Sci-Fi Channel to pick it up from UPN and will stage a rally in Los Angeles on 25 February. The advert described the Star Trek franchise as a "cultural icon". Enterprise stars former Quantum Leap actor Scott Bakula as Captain Archer and is set before the original 1960s Star Trek series. "Captain Archer and the crew of the NX-01 need your help to continue their journeys!" the advert said. It also included a cut-out coupon for fans to send to UPN's parent companies Paramount and Viacom plus the Sci-Fi Channel. It also urged supporters to join the rally outside the Paramount studios. Fan website Trek United is hoping to raise $32m (£17m) from donations by the end of March to pay for a fifth series. More than $23,000 (£12,000) has been pledged so far, according to the site. The 98th and final episode of Star Trek: Enterprise will air in the US on 13 May. The fourth series has averaged 2.9 million viewers per episode - half the amount it got in its first series.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has admitted he is at a loss to explain why Newcastle are languishing in the bottom half of the table. The Gunners travel to St James' Park on Wednesday, with Newcastle 14th in the Premiership after a troubled season. And Wenger said: "At the beginning of the season you would expect them to be fighting for the top four. "I don't know how they got to be where they are. It looks to me from the outside that they have many injuries." Arsenal go into the game on the back of a 2-0 victory over Fulham on Sunday. And Wenger added: "The best way to prepare for a game is to win the previous one. We will go to Newcastle in good shape. "Fatigue won't play too big a part in the next few weeks as we have players coming back so I can rotate a bit more. "We do not play a season with 11 players and I believe that all of our squad deserve a chance in the team." Striker Thierry Henry, along with Robert Pires, scored against Fulham. And Henry afterwards described the display as "beautiful to watch". He said: "What matters is winning and the three points, of course. That is the only thing that really matters. But it is more enjoyable when you play like we did against Fulham. "We are playing as a team and that is important because there were some games when we maybe were not there as
More than 90% of large companies around the world are highly optimistic about their economic prospects, a survey of 1,300 bosses suggests. Their biggest worries are not terror threats, but over-regulation, low-cost competition and the wild ups and downs of oil prices. There is one exception: Firms in Western Europe - but not the UK - are lacking confidence after years of slow growth. When business advisers PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) conducted the same survey two years ago, nearly 30% of bosses were gloomy about their prospects. Global business leaders say that they are facing a two-pronged regulatory assault. After a string of corporate scandals in the United States - from Enron to WorldCom - the Sarbanes-Oxley act forces companies to be much more transparent, but doing all the paperwork costs a lot of time and money. Across Europe, meanwhile, all stock exchange-listed companies are currently in the process of moving to new and complex accounting standards called IFRS. Hacking through the red tape can hardly be avoided, but many chief executives around the world appear to have decided on how to deal with low-cost competitors. Already, about 28% of the bosses polled for the survey say that they have moved parts of their business into low-wage countries, and another 11% plan to do so in the future. Possibly as a result, the worry about low-cost competition has slightly fallen from last year, with just 54% of companies calling it a "significant threat" or "one of the biggest threats". But PwC's global
Johnny O'Connor is determined to make a big impression when he makes his RBS Six Nations debut for Ireland against Scotland on Saturday. The Wasps flanker replaces Denis Leamy but O'Connor knows that the Munster man will be pushing hard for a recall for the following game against England. "It's a 'horses for courses' selection really," said O'Connor. "There's a lot of competition here and I can't just drag my heels around if I don't get picked." It looks a definite head-to-head battle between himself and 23-year-old Leamy - three stone heavier than O'Connor - for the number seven role against the world champions. Nonetheless, all O'Connor is currently concerned about is making an impression while winning his third cap. "Missing the Italian game was disappointing certainly, but you can't dwell on these things - it's part and parcel of rugby. "Denis has been playing really well and deserved his opportunity. "It's a good situation to be in if there are good players around you, pushing for a place in the side." O'Connor, who celebrated his 25th birthday on Wednesday, was touted by Wasps director of rugby Warren Gatland as a possible 2005 Lions Test openside as far back as last September. And his reputation as a breakdown scavenger and heavy hitter has seen him come to the forefront of O'Sullivan's mind for the Scottish tussle. O'Connor added: "It will be interesting to see how situations on the deck is reffed, with the new laws having come in. "Obviously the
The Japanese government has forecast that the country's economic growth will slow to 1.6% in the next fiscal year starting in April 2005. While it predicts this fall from the current 2.1% level, it said it was making progress on ending deflation. The figures were given by economics minister Heizo Takenaka who said the economy would grow by 2% in 2006/07. He said the consumer price index (CPI) would rise 0.1% in the next fiscal year, the first gain since 2000/01. "We are attempting to make real economic conditions better and to overcome deflation. I think we are on track," said Mr Takenaka. Deflation - or falling consumer prices - has plagued Japan for more than five years. To ease the problem the Bank of Japan has regularly flooded the money market with excess cash to keep short term interest rates at 0% in an attempt to spur economic activity.
Scotland's first minister has told a group of high school pupils that it is okay to get drunk "once in a while". Jack McConnell was speaking to more than 100 secondary pupils from schools in the Highlands about the problems of binge drinking and drink promotions. He has been criticised by the SNP for encouraging young people to get drunk. But the Scottish Executive has insisted Mr McConnell was speaking about adults and his comments were "a recognition that people will get drunk". The first minister's comments came in a question and answer session at Glenurquhart High School in Inverness, attended by pupils from a number of secondary schools. A Highland councillor who was at the event has also defended Mr McConnell. Margaret Davidson, the independent member for the Loch Ness West, said the first minister was speaking in a very general way and she was sure he was speaking about adults at the time. When one pupil asked Mr McConnell how the executive proposed to tackle under-age drinking, began his response with the quip: "I'm sure there's no under-age drinking in the Highlands." He went on to speak about the evils of binge drinking and railed against irresponsible drinks promotions. He said: "I hope I'm not going to be seen as preaching to anybody here but the really serious problem at the moment is binge drinking and the impact it has on people's health and their ability to control what's happening round about them." Mr McConnell said he regularly
Top of the Pops has turned to the star of Elvis Presley musical Jailhouse Rock after the late rock legend scooped the UK's 1,000th number one single. Mario Kombou, who plays the Presley role on stage, will sing One Night on Friday's BBC One show as producers are unable to use Presley video footage. It is his second number one in a row. The show used Presley photos last week. Presley will feature in the charts for several more months as all 18 of his original UK chart-toppers are reissued. A Top of the Pops spokesperson said: "It's a very special number one as it's the UK's 1,000th. "We wanted to pay tribute to Elvis in the best way we knew how, so we thought getting a professional would be the best way for Top of the Pops to do that." Kombou is likely to appear on the show again next week as the next Presley re-release, A Fool Such As I, is on course to give him his third number one in three weeks. Kombou plays Vince Everett in Jailhouse Rock - the same role Presley played in the 1957 film of the same name.
World number one Roger Federer added the Dubai Championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by Ivan Ljubicic. Top seed Federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set. But Ljubicic, who beat Tim Henman in the last eight, dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak. Swiss star Federer was not about to lose his cool, though, turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3. The match was a re-run of last week's final at the World Indoor Tournament in Rotterdam, where Federer triumphed, but not until Ljubicic had stretched him for five sets. "I really wanted to get off to a good start this time, and I did, and I could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm," Federer said. "That took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and I almost ran away with it. But he came back, and that was a good effort on his side." Ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set. "I didn't start badly, but then suddenly I felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much. And with Roger, if you relax for a second it just goes very quick," he said. "After those first three games it was no match
Liverpool chief executive Rick Parry insists the club will never sell Steven Gerrard amid reports Chelsea will renew their bid to lure him from Anfield. Gerrard reiterated his desire to win trophies with the Reds after his superb Champions League winner on Wednesday. And Parry has moved to scotch claims that Chelsea could launch a £35m bid. "There is no chance of Stevie going in January," said Parry. "That just won't happen. Our intention is that we will never let him go." Gerrard scored a spectacular late goal to give Liverpool a 3-1 win over Olympiakos and book their place in the knockout stages. "Of course he is ambitious but so are we," Parry added. "We firmly believe that if we can satisfy his ambition he will remain a Liverpool player. "We have an open and straightforward relationship. We both know where we stand and that played a big part in his decision to stay last summer. If he was not so committed to Liverpool he would have gone by now." Gerrard had said before Wednesday's game he would consider leaving if the club was knocked out of Europe, with Real Madrid also believed to be monitoring his situation. "The main point I have made is I want to be in a Liverpool side which challenges for the Champions League and the title all the time," he said afterwards. "I want to be winning things with Liverpool, not somewhere else. "I am a fan as well and I think what
Singer George Michael has said that a new film about his life is the start of a retirement from public view. The pop star said it would be a much more "behind the scenes affair", and called his own genre of music "dead". "I thought I should explain myself before I disappear," said Michael, who was at the Berlin film festival to launch the documentary. The film, A Different Story, chronicles Michael's life and career from the 1980s and his personal struggles. The 41-year-old chart-topper told reporters in the German capital that he wanted to "move his career into a different form", but added that he does not know what it is going to be yet. "I'm still going to be making music," he said, but added that he was "not going to be around". He hinted at discontent with the current state of music industry, and said: "I don't really think that there is anyone in the modern pop business who I feel I want to spar with." Michael said that the film, directed by Southan Morris, would put his two decades of fame into context. "It's almost as much for me as for my fans, in terms of trying to make sense of the last 22 years and bring it to a close in a proper way," he said. The documentary chronicles the highs and lows of his life in the public gaze, from his meteoric rise as one half of pop duo Wham! to his arrest for
Larne's teenage star Robbie Weir is poised to join Sunderland after turning down a move to Stoke City. The 17-year-old Irish League midfielder was also being chased by Rangers and Fulham, but Mick McCarthy's side appear to have won the race. But Larne boss Jimmy McGeough has yet to confirm that Weir is on his way from Inver Park. "I heard on Sunday that he has joined Sunderland, but not from the lad himself," he said. ''Robbie has an agreement with Larne that he can negotiate with interested clubs. ''Personally, I would rather see him making an impact at local level to build up his physique before moving into the full-time game. ''He has been on trial with a number of clubs. But it would be great to see him making it at Sunderland.''
Turkey has agreed a draft proposal with the International Monetary Fund to borrow $10bn (£5.19bn), extending its ongoing financial support until 2007. Turkey's current $18.6bn loan agreement with the IMF expires in February and the new deal would see it receive added support between 2005 and 2007. In return for the funding, Turkey would be expected to keep inflation under control and introduce market reforms. Turkey's economy has steadily recovered from a severe crisis in 2001. Economic growth has average 6-7% in the past three years, ahead of IMF forecasts, while inflation fell below 10% this year for the first time in 30 years. However, Turkey has a huge debt burden - already owing $23bn to the IMF - while its current account deficit has swelled to $10.7bn this year. The Turkish economics minister, Ali Babacan, said the two sides had reached general agreement on a new three year funding program. Rodrigo de Rato, the IMF's managing director, said the loan agreement would help to improve Turkish economic prospects by cutting its debt and stimulating growth. "I believe the new programme, if implemented successfully, will help Turkey create the conditions for sustained growth and employment creation, reduce inflation toward European level and enhance the economy's resilience," he said. The agreement must still be ratified by IMF directors at a meeting expected to take place next month. The agreement would also enable Turkey to defer payments on previous loans worth $3.7m until 2006. As part of the draft agreement, Turkey has
Newcastle centre Mathew Tait answered his critics as he scored one try and made another, but he could not stop Gloucester grabbing a draw. The Falcons were 22-6 down at the break before Tait, recently axed by England after just one Six Nations outing, inspired his side to a 27-22 lead. A last-gasp touchdown from Luke Narraway pulled the visitors level. But Gloucester missed out on victory when Henry Paul fluffed the conversion and Seti Kiole was denied a late try. Newcastle had a couple of chances at the start of the second half with line-outs in the corner. But they failed to make them count until Joe Shaw found Dave Walder, who released Mark Mayerholfer in his own 22. The former All Black broke clear and popped the ball up for Tait on halfway. He chipped ahead for Michael Stephenson to scorch through for the try, which Walder converted to give Newcastle a lifeline. They grabbed it with both hands, Mayerhofler breaking through and Tait making a brilliant early run to cut inside and race 30m to score. Walder converted to make it 22-20 before he was just wide with a 40m penalty in the 70th minute. Mayerhofler then scythed through the middle for a try after Hall Charlton popped the ball up, and Walder's conversion took Newcastle 27-22 ahead. With three minutes of normal time left, Narraway was driven over for a try in the corner which levelled the scores at 27-27. Henry missed the conversion but Gloucester
The IAAF - athletics' world governing body - has met anti-doping officials, coaches and athletes to co-ordinate the fight against drugs in sport. Two task forces have been set up to examine doping and nutrition issues. It was also agreed that a programme to "de-mystify" the issue to athletes, the public and the media was a priority. "Nothing was decided to change things - it was more to have a forum of the stakeholders allowing them to express themselves," said an IAAF spokesman. "Getting everyone together gave us a lot of food for thought." About 60 people attended Sunday's meeting in Monaco, including IAAF chief Lamine Diack and Namibian athlete Frankie Fredericks, now a member of the Athletes' Commission. "I am very happy to see you all, members of the athletics family, respond positively to the IAAF call to sit together and discuss what more we can do in the fight against doping," said Diack. "We are the leading Federation in this field and it is our duty to keep our sport clean." The two task forces will report back to the IAAF Council, at its April meeting in Qatar.
The worst kept secret in Scottish football was revealed on Thursday when Walter Smith was named as the new national manager. From the moment Berti Vogts' miserable tenure in charge of Scotland ended, the former Rangers and Everton boss has been the overwhelming favourite for the post. But is Smith the man for what must be one of the hardest jobs in football? The 56-year-old takes over at a time when the national side is in the doldrums. Scotland have not reached a major finals since the World Cup in 1998 and reaching Germany 2006 looks near impossible, having picked up just two points from the opening three games in the qualifying race. And the Fifa rankings see Scotland listed at an all time low of 77th, below the likes of Estonia, Ghana, Angola and Thailand. Scotland are not blessed with quality players with experience at the top level, so Smith will have to get the best out of meagre resources. Smith's track record make impressive reading and he is widely respected within the game. The man who was Alex Ferguson's assistant when Scotland played at the 1986 World Cup won seven league titles with Rangers. And his appointment has been widely endorsed by many of the games' top names, including Ferguson and Graeme Souness, who took him to Ibrox as his assistant in 1986. Characters like Souness, Ferguson and current Ibrox manager Alex McLeish all cite Smith's experience and his expansive knowledge of the Scottish game. Much was made
World outdoor triple jump record holder and BBC pundit Jonathan Edwards believes Phillips Idowu can take gold at the European Indoor Championships. Idowu landed 17.30m at the British trials in Sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings. "It's all down to him, but if he jumps as well as he did in Sheffield he could win the gold medal," said Edwards. "His ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings." Idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a Commonwealth silver medal to his name. Edwards himself kept Idowu off top spot at the Manchester Games. But he believes the European Indoors in Madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as Britain's top triple jumper. "He has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning," said Edwards. "Phillips still needs to be much more consistent. I'm sure a victory in Madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world." The qualifying round of the men's triple jump in Madrid takes place on Friday with the final scheduled for Saturday. Olympic champion Christian Olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury.
Sale Sharks director of rugby Philippe Saint-Andre has re-opened rugby's club-versus-country debate. Sale host Bath in the Powergen Cup on Friday, but the Frenchman has endured a "difficult week" with six players away on England's Six Nations training camp. "It's an important game but we've just the one full session. It's the same for everyone but we need to manage it. "If five players or more are picked for your country they should move the date of the game," he told BBC Sport. Unless the authorities agree to make changes, Saint-Andre believes England's national team will suffer as clubs opt to sign foreigners and retired internationals. "That's not good for the politics of the English team or for English rugby," he argues. It is an issue he has taken up before, most notably during the autumn internationals when Sale lost all three Zurich Premiership matches they played. Now he fears it could derail the club's hopes of cup silverware after eight players, including captain Jason Robinson and fly-half Charlie Hodgson, were away with their countries. "We're in the quarter-finals, it's always better to play at home than away and it's a great opportunity," he added. "But we have to be careful. Bath have just been knocked out of Europe and will make it a tough game. It also comes at the end of a very, very difficult week. "Sebastien Bruno's been with France, Jason White with Scotland and there are six with England, that's eight players plus injuries - 13
Sydney will host a northern versus southern hemisphere charity match in June or July, the Australian Rugby Union (ARU) said on Wednesday. The match will include players from the Lions tour of New Zealand. "The Australian Rugby Union has thrown its support behind a proposed North-South match to raise funds for the tsunami appeals," the ARU said. The date is yet to be decided but the most likely venue is Sydney's Olympic Stadium. ARU chief executive Gary Flowers said the world cricket charity match in Melbourne earlier this month had inspired the ARU. "We still need to discuss the options with the IRB (International Rugby Board), the Lions and our SANZAR (South Africa, New Zealand and Australia Rugby) partners, but June or July is seen as a better option than March to ensure we have the cream of southern hemisphere rugby available," he said. Wallabies captain George Gregan said the charity match was a "great initiative". Tri-Nations rivals Australia, New Zealand and South Africa would feature prominently in a southern team against a northern side comprised of Six Nations teams France, Ireland, England, Wales, Italy and Scotland. Coach Clive Woodward's Lions squad will tour New Zealand in June and July, including Tests on 25 June, 2 and 9 July. Almost 80,000 fans packed into Melbourne Cricket Ground on 10 January for a charity match that raised £5.9m for victims of the Asian tsunami.
Playing colours: All black The Haka and more! The All Blacks Charles John Munro discovered rugby at London's Christ College, and on his return to Nelson he staged New Zealand's first game. Nelson Town met Nelson College on 14 May, 1870, the Town triumphing by two goals to nil, instigating a game that would become a national obsession and come to dominate the country's sporting passions. The game appealed to the Kiwi psyche and quickly spread, the native Maoris finding a particular empathy with the sport's warrior ethos. In 1888 a British team led by AE Stoddart toured New Zealand and Australia, and soon after a Maori named Joe Warbrick and an English ex-pat called Thomas Eyton decided to gather a combined New Zealand team. Twenty-two Maori and four 'pakiha' formed the 'New Zealand Native Team,' who played a total of 107 matches in New Zealand, Australia and the UK. The integration of white and Maori was a reflecion of enlightened New Zealand rugby and society, even if the British press were somewhat mystified by the pre-match tradition of the Maori war dance, the Haka! The other great symbol of New Zealand rugby, the all black kit with the silver fern on the breast, was proposed by Tom Ellison at the first annual meeting of the New Zealand Rugby Football Union in 1893. New Zealand played their first international against Australia in 1903, the Kiwis triumphing 22-3 in Sydney, and the following year an official British touring team came to
Arsenal's Brazilian midfielder Edu has hit out at the club for stalling over offering him a new contract. Edu's deal expires next summer and he has been linked with Spanish trio Real Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia. He told BBC Sport: "I'm not sure if I want to stay or not because the club have let the situation go on this far. "If they had really wanted to sign they should have come up with an offer six months before indicating they wanted to sign me and that's made me think." Edu's brother and representative Amadeo Fensao has previously said that Arsenal's current offer to the midfielder was well short of what he was seeking. And Edu, 26, added: "My brother is due to come to London on Thursday. "There is a meeting planned for 6 or 7 January to sort it out with Arsenal. "Now I have a choice to stay or go. I want to sort it out as soon as possible, that's in the best interests of both the club and myself. "I'm going to make my decision after the meeting later this week." Edu is now able to begin negotiations with other clubs because Fifa regulations allow players to start talks six months before their contracts expire. The midfielder, who broke in to the Brazilian national side in 2004, admitted he had been flattered to have been linked with the three Spanish giants. Edu said: "I've just heard stories from the news that the Madrid president Florentino
Britain's Kelly Holmes marked her first appearance on home soil since winning double Olympic gold with 1500m victory at the Norwich Union International. Holmes hit the front just before the bell in front of a sell-out crowd in Glasgow and cruised to victory in a time of four minutes 14.74 seconds. "It was nice to get that out of the way. I was nervous about whether I would actually be able to get round. "I felt good. I just had to relax and use my racing knowledge," said Holmes. "It was all about winning in front of my home crowd. The time is irrelevant. "I got round in one piece and didn't disgrace myself. Now it's about going forward. "The reception I've had since the Olympics has been amazing and that's why I wanted to keep running this year, because I get a buzz from the crowd." Holmes ran a tactically perfect race to finish clear of France's Hind Dehiba and Russia's Svetlana Cherkasova. The Olympic 800m and 1500m champion's time was inside the qualifying mark for the European Indoor Championships in Madrid in March. But the 34-year-old would not reveal whether she intended to run or not, having previously indicated she would leave a decision until after the Birmingham Grand Prix on 18 February.
Newcastle boss Graeme Souness is lining up a summer move for England and Real Madrid striker Michael Owen. He sees Owen as the ideal replacement for Alan Shearer, who is due to retire in the summer, although he hopes to persuade Shearer to carry on. "Michael is in the category of players who would excite the fans and we're monitoring him," he told BBC Newcastle. "He is a great centre-forward and only 25 but I don't think we're the only ones monitoring the situation at Real." Souness has also hinted he thinks Shearer may carry on despite his stated intent to retire at the end of the season. He believes the prospect of breaking Jackie Milburn's club scoring record may influence the striker's decision. Milburn scored 200 league and cup goals between 1946 and 1957, while Shearer currently has 187 goals to his name. "Without giving too much away, I am confident he will be here next season," said Souness. "I can't imagine him leaving without breaking Jackie Milburn's scoring record." Souness also revealed he tried to bring back Nolberto Solano during the January transfer window. The Peruvian international was sold to Aston Villa a year ago but in the phone-in for BBC Newcastle, Souness said tried to re-sign him, but Villa were not interested in selling. The former Rangers and Liverpool boss is also looking to bring in a number of new acquisitions once the current campaign has been completed. "I'm after three, four or five new players in
When you are gunning for glory and ultimate success keeping the gunpowder dry is essential. Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan appears to have done that quite successfully in the run-up to this season's Six Nations Championship. He decreed after the 2003 World Cup that players should have a decent conditioning period during the year. That became a reality at the end of last summer with a 10-week period at the start of the this season. It may have annoyed his Scottish, and in particularly Welsh, cousins who huffed and puffed at the disrespect apparently shown to the Celtic League. We will say nothing of Mike Ruddock ''poaching'' eight of the Dragons side that faced Leinster on Sunday. But, like O'Sullivan, he was well within his rights, particularly when you are talking about the national side and pride that goes along with it. The IRFU has thrown their weight behind O'Sullivan, who must be glad that in the main, there is centrally-controlled contracts. Bar Keith Gleeson who is just returning from a broken leg, everyone of O'Sullivan's squad is fit, fresh and standing at the oche ready to launch this season's campaign. But I doubt whether O'Sullivan is going to gloat about the handling of his players. He is not that sort of person. However, he may look at the overworked and injury-hit England, Wales and France squads whose players have been overworked, and then pat himself on the back for his foresight. But there is still the question of turning up
The UK manufacturing sector will continue to face "serious challenges" over the next two years, the British Chamber of Commerce (BCC) has said. The group's quarterly survey of companies found exports had picked up in the last three months of 2004 to their best levels in eight years. The rise came despite exchange rates being cited as a major concern. However, the BCC found the whole UK economy still faced "major risks" and warned that growth is set to slow. It recently forecast economic growth will slow from more than 3% in 2004 to a little below 2.5% in both 2005 and 2006. Manufacturers' domestic sales growth fell back slightly in the quarter, the survey of 5,196 firms found. Employment in manufacturing also fell and job expectations were at their lowest level for a year. "Despite some positive news for the export sector, there are worrying signs for manufacturing," the BCC said. "These results reinforce our concern over the sector's persistent inability to sustain recovery." The outlook for the service sector was "uncertain" despite an increase in exports and orders over the quarter, the BCC noted. The BCC found confidence increased in the quarter across both the manufacturing and service sectors although overall it failed to reach the levels at the start of 2004. The reduced threat of interest rate increases had contributed to improved confidence, it said. The Bank of England raised interest rates five times between November 2003 and August last year. But rates have been kept on
Parmalat, the Italian dairy company which went bust after an accounting scandal, hopes to be back on the Italian stock exchange in July. The firm gained protection from creditors in 2003 after revealing debts of 14bn euros ($18.34bn; £9.6bn). This was eight times higher than it had previously stated. In a statement issued on Wednesday night, Parmalat Finanziaria detailed administrators' latest plans for re-listing the shares of the group. As part of the re-listing on the Italian stock exchange, creditors' debts are expected to be converted into shares through two new share issues amounting to more than 2bn euros. The company's creditors will be asked to vote on the plan later this year. The plan is likely to give creditors of Parmalat Finanziaria shares worth about 5.7% of the debts they are owed. This is lower than the 11.3% creditors previously hoped to receive. Creditors of Parmalat, the main operating company, are likely to see the percentage of debt they receive fall from 7.3% to 6.9%. Several former top Parmalat executives are under investigation for the fraud scandal. Lawmakers said on Wednesday night Enrico Bondi, the turnaround specialist appointed by the Italian government as Parmalat's chief executive, spoke positively about the company during a closed-door hearing of the Chamber of Deputies industry commission. "Bondi supplied us with elements of positive results on the industrial positions and on the history of debt which will find a point of solution through the Parmalat group's quotation on the market in July," Italian news
Pan-European group Euronext is poised to launch a bid for the London Stock Exchange, UK media reports say. Last week, the LSE rejected a takeover proposal from German rival Deutsche Boerse - the 530 pence-a-share offer valued the exchange at about £1.35bn. The LSE, which saw its shares rise 25%, said the bid undervalued the business. Euronext - formed after the Brussels, Paris and Amsterdam exchanges merged - is reportedly working with three investment banks on a possible offer. The LSE, Europe's biggest stock market, is a key prize, listing stocks with a total capitalisation of £1.4 trillion. Euronext already has a presence in London due to its 2001 acquisition of London-based options and futures exchange Liffe. Trades on the LSE are cleared via Clearnet, in which Euronext has a quarter stake. Euronext, which also operates an exchange in Lisbon, last week appointed UBS and ABN Amro as additional advisors. It is also working with Morgan Stanley. Despite the rejection of the Deutsche Boerse bid last week, Werner Seifert, chief executive of the Frankfurt-based exchange, may well come back with an improved offer. It has long wanted to link up with London, and the two tried and failed to seal a merger in 2000. Responding to the LSE's rebuff, Deutsche Boerse - whose market capitalisation is more than £3bn - said it believed it could show its proposal offered benefits, and that it still hoped to make a cash bid. Last week the LSE said not only was the bid
Ten years of "golden" economic performance may come to an end in 2005 with growth slowing markedly, City consultancy Deloitte has warned. The UK economy could suffer a backlash from the slowdown in the housing market, triggering a fall in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. Deloitte is forecasting economic growth of 2% this year, below Chancellor Gordon Brown's forecast of 3% to 3.5%. It also believes that interest rates will fall to 4% by the end of the year. In its quarterly economic review, Deloitte said the UK economy had enjoyed a "golden period" during the past decade with unemployment falling to a near 30 year low and inflation at its lowest since the 1960s. But it warned that this growth had been achieved at the expense of creating major "imbalances" in the economy. Deloitte's chief economic advisor Roger Bootle said: "The biggest hit of all is set to come from the housing market which has already embarked on a major slowdown. "Whereas the main driver of the economy in recent years has been robust household spending growth, this is likely to suffer as the housing market slowdown gathers pace." Economic growth is likely to be constrained during the next few years by increased pressure on household budgets and rising taxes, Deloitte believes. Gordon Brown will need to raise about $10bn a year in order to sustain the public finances in the short term, the firm claims. This will result in a marked slowdown in growth in 2005
Shops all over the UK reported strong sales on the last Saturday before Christmas with some claiming record-breaking numbers of festive shoppers. A spokesman for Manchester's Trafford Centre said it was "the biggest Christmas to date" with sales up 5%. And the Regent Street Association said shops in central London were also expecting the "best Christmas ever". That picture comes despite reports of disappointing festive sales in the last couple of weeks. The Trafford Centre spokeswoman said about 8,500 thousand vehicles had arrived at the centre on Saturday before 1130 GMT. "We predict that the next week will continue the same trend," she added. It was a similar story at Bluewater in Kent. Spokesman Alan Jones said he expected 150,000 shoppers to have visited by the end of Saturday and a further 100,000 on Sunday. "Our sales so far have been 2% up on the same time last year," he said. "We're very busy, it's really strong and people will be shopping right up until Christmas. "Over the Christmas period we're expecting people to spend in excess of £200m at the centre." On Saturday afternoon, a spokeswoman for the St David's Shopping Centre in Cardiff said it looked like being its busiest day of the year with about 200,000 shoppers expected to have visited by the close of play. At the St Enoch's Shopping Centre in Glasgow, more than 140,000 shoppers - an all-time record - were expected to have passed through the doors by its closing time of 1900
Less than four years after the new Mini was launched, German car maker BMW has announced £100m of new investment. Some 200 new jobs are to be created at the Oxford factory, including modernised machinery and a new body shell production building. The result of the investment could be to raise output to more than 200,000 cars from 2007. The rise, from 189,000 last year, is a response to rapidly-rising demand and could help wipe out waiting lists. Before Wednesday's announcement, BMW had invested some £280m in Mini production. Since its launch during summer 2001, the new Mini has gone from strength to strength. Last year, almost one in six cars sold by the BMW group was a Mini. The company admits that the success of the brand came despite scepticism from many in the industry. "Our decision to produce a new Mini was not received well right away," said Norbert Reithofer, a member of the BMW management board. Initially, BMW said it would produce 100,000 Mini models a year at its vast Cowley factory on the outskirts of Oxford, but the target was quickly reached, then raised, time and time again. Not everyone is convinced that the boom can continue. "The risk is that after they've invested massively in the brand, demand tapers off like it did with the new VW Beetle," said Brad Wernle, from Automotive News Europe. The price of the car has also gone up. When it was launched, the cheapest Mini cost just more than
China overtook the US to become Japan's biggest trading partner in 2004, according to numbers released by Japan's Finance Ministry on Wednesday. China accounted for 20.1% of Japan's trade in 2004, compared with 18.6% for the US. In 2003, the US was ahead with 20.5% and China came second with 19.2%. The change highlights China's growing importance as an economic powerhouse. In 2004, Japan's imports from and exports to China (and Hong Kong) added up to 22,201bn yen ($214.6bn;£114.5bn). This is the highest figure for Japanese trade with China since records began in 1947. It compares with 20,479.5bn yen in trade with the US. Trade with the US during 2004 was hurt by one-off factors, including a 13-month ban on US beef imports following the discovery of a cow infected with mad cow disease (BSE) in the US. However, economists predict China will become an even more important Japanese trading partner in the coming years. On Tuesday, figures showed China's economy grew by 9.5% in 2004 and experts say the overall growth picture remains strong. Analysts see two spurs to future growth as being China's membership of the World Trade Organisation and lower trade tariffs. During 2004, Japan's trade surplus grew 17.9% to 12.011 trillion yen, with more than half the surplus, 6.962 trillion yen, accounted for by its trade with the US. In December, the surplus grew 1.8% on a year ago to 1.14 trillion yen thanks to stronger-than-expected exports.
The market, former British government minister Michael Heseltine once said, has no morality. And indeed, stock exchange traders around Asia have wasted little time regretting the victims of this week's disaster. Stock markets in Indonesia and India have hit all-time highs this week; even in Sri Lanka, more comprehensively affected, the main index has lost only 5% since the waves hit. Bigger markets further afield have barely twitched. The MSCI World share index, a measure of global stock market performance, hit its highest level this week since early 2001; the BBC Global 30 has risen by 3% in the past week. And this at a time when - all sentiment aside - insurance costs are already estimated in the tens of billions of dollars, and countries around the region are looking at trimming their growth forecasts. In fact, the markets are being perfectly rational. For a start, the notional insurance cost of the disaster will have little bearing on corporate bottom lines. The overwhelming majority of the victims will have had no insurance: according to estimates from India, only one-quarter of those affected there were wealthy enough to afford insurance, and only one-quarter of that group at most will have taken out policies. Indonesia is likely to have even lower take-up rates. And where insurance certainly is in place - in, for example, the many tourist complexes affected - the costs will be borne in far-away corners of the global reinsurance market, rather than landing locally. Second, stock markets do
China lent Russia $6bn (£3.2bn) to help the Russian government renationalise the key Yuganskneftegas unit of oil group Yukos, it has been revealed. The Kremlin said on Tuesday that the $6bn which Russian state bank VEB lent state-owned Rosneft to help buy Yugansk in turn came from Chinese banks. The revelation came as the Russian government said Rosneft had signed a long-term oil supply deal with China. The deal sees Rosneft receive $6bn in credits from China's CNPC. According to Russian newspaper Vedomosti, these credits would be used to pay off the loans Rosneft received to finance the purchase of Yugansk. Reports said CNPC had been offered 20% of Yugansk in return for providing finance but the company opted for a long-term oil supply deal instead. Analysts said one factor that might have influenced the Chinese decision was the possibility of litigation from Yukos, Yugansk's former owner, if CNPC had become a shareholder. Rosneft and VEB declined to comment. "The two companies [Rosneft and CNPC] have agreed on the pre-payment for long-term deliveries," said Russian oil official Sergei Oganesyan. "There is nothing unusual that the pre-payment is for five to six years." The announcements help to explain how Rosneft, a medium-sized, indebted, and relatively unknown firm, was able to finance its surprise purchase of Yugansk. Yugansk was sold for $9.3bn in an auction last year to help Yukos pay off part of a $27bn bill in unpaid taxes and fines. The embattled Russian oil giant had previously filed for bankruptcy
Two senior officials at one of China's top commercial banks have reportedly disappeared after funds worth up to $120m (£64m) went missing. The pair both worked at Bank of China in the northern city of Harbin, the South China Morning Post reported. The latest scandal at Bank of China will do nothing to reassure foreign investors that China's big four banks are ready for international listings. Government policy sees the bank listings as vital economic reforms. Bank of China is one of two frontrunners in the race to list overseas. The other is China Construction Bank. Both are expected to list abroad during 2005. They shared a $45bn state bailout in 2003, to help clean up their balance sheets in preparation for a foreign stock market debut. However, a report in the China-published Economic Observer said on Monday that the two banks may have scrapped plans to list in New York because of the cost of meeting regulatory requirements imposed since the Enron scandal. Bank of China is the country's biggest foreign exchange dealer, while China Construction Bank is the largest deposit holder. China's banking sector is burdened with at least $190bn of bad debt according to official data, though most observers believe the true figure is far higher. Officially, one in five loans is not being repaid. Attempts to strengthen internal controls and tighten lending policies have uncovered a succession of scandals involving embezzlement by bank officials and loans-for-favours. The most high-profile case involved the ex-president of Bank of
House prices fell further in November and property sale times lengthened as rate rises took their toll, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors found. A total of 48% of chartered surveyor estate agents reported lower prices in the three months to November - the highest level in 12 years. Meanwhile the number of sales dropped 32% to an average of 22 per surveyor. The amount of unsold properties on their books rose for the sixth month in a row to an average of 67 properties. "The slowdown occurring in the market has given buyers more power to negotiate, but this time of year is traditionally a quiet one," RICS housing spokesman Ian Perry said. "The decision by the Bank of England not to increase interest rates further and the healthy economy is allowing confidence to consolidate." The figures support recent data from the government and other bodies which all point to a slowdown in the housing market. On Monday, the Council of Mortgage Lenders, British Bankers Association and Building Societies Association all said mortgage lending was slowing. The figures were published as another survey by property website Rightmove said the average asking price of a home fell by more than £600 from £190,329 in November to £189,733 in December. Around the UK, the Midlands and South saw the biggest price falls, while London prices fell but at less than the national rate. In Scotland, where prices have remained on an upward path, increases were more "moderate", RICS added. But the
Two of the largest airlines in the US - American and Southwest - have blamed record fuel prices for their disappointing quarterly results. American Airlines' parent AMR reported a loss of $387m (£206m) for the fourth quarter of 2004, against a $111m loss for the same period a year earlier. Meanwhile, Southwest Airlines saw its fourth-quarter 2004 profits fall 15% to $56m, against $66m a year earlier. Both said high fuel bills would continue to pressure revenues in 2005. American, the world's biggest airline by some measures, said it expected to report a loss for the first quarter of 2005. Southwest, which has the highest market value of any US carrier, said it would remain profitable despite high fuel prices. AMR's shares were flat in Wednesday morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as the results were slightly better than analysts had anticipated. AMR's chief executive Gerard Arpey said the airline's difficulties reflected the situation within the industry. "AMR's results for the fourth quarter of 2004 reflect the economic woes that plagued the airline industry throughout 2004 - in particular, high fuel prices and a tough revenue environment," he said. For the full year, AMR posted a loss of $761m, lower than 2003's $1.2bn loss and an indication that the airline has successfully cut costs. AMR added that as part of its cost cutting measures, it is postponing the delivery of 54 Boeing jets. Shares in Southwest fell 65 cents to $14.35 as analysts voiced their disappointment. "The results
A US defence and telecommunications company has agreed to pay $28.5m after admitting bribery in the West African state of Benin. The Titan corporation was accused of funnelling more than $2m into the 2001 re-election campaign of President Mathieu Kerekou. At the time, Titan was trying to get a higher price for a telecommunications project in Benin. There is no suggestion that Mr Kerekou was himself aware of any wrongdoing. Titan, a California-based company, pleaded guilty to falsifying its accounts and violating US anti-bribery laws. It agreed to pay $13m in criminal penalties, as well as $15.5m to settle a civil lawsuit brought by the US financial watchdog, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC had accused Titan of illegally paying $2.1m to an unnamed agent in Benin claiming ties with President Kerekou. Some of the money was used to pay for T-shirts with campaign slogans on them ahead of the 2001 election. Shortly after the poll, which Mr Kerekou won, Benin officials agreed to quadruple Titan's management fee. Prosecuting attorney Carol Lam said: "All US companies should take note that attempting to bribe foreign officials is criminal conduct and will be appropriately prosecuted." The company says it no longer tolerates such practices. Under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, it is a crime for American firms to bribe foreign officials.
Government figures have confirmed a widely reported slowdown of the UK's housing market in late 2004. House prices were 11.8% higher on the year in the last quarter of 2004, down from 16.3% in the July-to-September quarter, the Land Registry said. The average house price in England and Wales was £182,920, down from £187,971 in July-September. The volume of sales between October and December dropped by nearly a quarter from the same period in 2003. The government figures are the first official confirmation of falls in the market at the end of 2004. Land Registry figures are less up to date than those of banks and building societies, since they record completions not mortgage approvals. However, the figures are viewed as the most accurate measure of house prices as they include all property transactions, including cash sales. The cost of buying a home fell in seven out of 10 regions between the third and fourth quarters of 2004. The biggest annual gains were made in Wales, where house prices were up by 23% in the fourth quarter. House prices rose the slowest in Greater London, being up by 6%. In the capital, the volume of sales fell by 23% from 36,185 in 2003 to 28,041 for the same period in 2004. There was also a decline in the number of million-pound properties sold in the capital, with 436 properties over £1m sold compared to 469 for the same period in 2003. Although the figures point to a slowdown in the
South Korea will boost state spending next year in an effort to create jobs and kick start its sputtering economy. It has earmarked 100 trillion won ($96bn) for the first six months of 2005, 60% of its total annual budget. The government's main problems are "slumping consumption and a contraction in the construction industry". It aims to create 400,000 jobs and will focus on infrastructure and home building, as well as providing public firms with money to hire new workers. The government has set an economic growth rate target of 5% for next year and hinted that would be in danger unless it took action. "Internal and external economic conditions are likely to remain unfavourable in 2005," the Finance and Economy Ministry said in a statement. It blamed "continuing uncertainties such as fluctuating oil prices and foreign exchange rates and stagnant domestic demand that has shown few signs of a quick rebound". In 2004, growth will be between 4.7% and 4.8%, the ministry said. Not everyone is convinced the plan will work. "Our primary worry centres on the what we believe is the government's overly optimistic view that its front loading of the budget will be enough to turn the economy around," consultancy 4Cast said in a report. The problem facing South Korea is that many consumers are reeling from the effects of a credit bubble that only recently burst. Millions of South Koreans are defaulting on their credit card bills, and the country's biggest card lender has been hovering
US car firms General Motors (GM) and Ford have been forced to cut production in the face of falling car sales. US sales at GM sank 12.7% in February compared to a year ago while Ford sales dropped 3% as foreign rivals took a bigger share of the market. Meanwhile, Asian carmakers fared well - Toyota sales jumped 11% while rival Nissan notched up a 10% increase. Overall. sales across the industry also fell to 1.25 million vehicles from 1.27 million a year earlier. GM and Ford blamed high fuel prices for low sales of big trucks and gas-guzzling sports utility vehicles (SUVs) - the vehicles that provide the biggest profits. GM added that US truck sales fell 9% in February while car business tumbled 17%, however it did acknowledge that some new products - such as the Pontiac G6 and Chevrolet Cobalt - had put in solid performances. "The calendar year is starting off slower than expected, both for GM and the industry," said Mark LaNeve, GM's vice president for North American sales, service and marketing. The slump in sales prompted the group to cut production in North America by 3% - it has already reduced output by around 9% in the face of growing stockpiles. Meanwhile, Ford which posted its ninth consecutive drop in monthly US sales, said it was cutting first-quarter North American production by another 10,000 vehicles, or 1.2%. Chrysler, the US unit of Germany's DaimlerChrysler, was the only Detroit based automaker to boast an increase
Strong growth in subscriptions to mobile phone network Orange has helped boost profits at owner France Telecom. Orange added more than five million new customers in 2004, leading to a 10% increase in its revenues. Increased take-up of broadband telecoms services also boosted France Telecom's profits, which showed a 5.5% rise to 18.3bn euros ($23.4bn; £12.5bn). France Telecom is to spend 578m euros on buying out minority shareholders in data services provider Equant. France Telecom, one of the world's largest telecoms and internet service providers, saw its full-year sales rise 2.2% to 47.2bn euros in 2004. Orange enjoyed strong growth outside France and the United Kingdom - its core markets - swelling its subscriber base to 5.4 million. France Telecom's broadband customers also increased, rising to 5.1 million across Europe by the end of the year. The firm said it had met its main strategic objectives of growing its individual businesses and further reducing its large debt. An ill-fated expansion drive in the late 1990s saw France Telecom's debt soar to 72bn euros by 2002. However, this has now been reduced to 43.9bn euros. "Our results for 2004 allow us to improve our financial structure while focusing on the innovation that drives our strategy," said chief executive Thierry Breton. Looking ahead, the company forecast like-for-like sales growth of between 3% and 5% over the next three years. France Telecom is consolidating its interest in Equant, which provides telecoms and data services to businesses. Subject to approval by shareholders of the
General Motors has warned that it expects earnings this year be lower than in 2004. The world's biggest car maker is grappling with losses in its European business, and weak US sales. GM said higher healthcare costs in North America, and lower profits at its financial services subsidiary would hurt its performance in 2005. GM said it expects to meet its 2004 earnings targets "despite a tough competitive environment". GM, whose brands include Buick, Cadillac and Chevrolet in the US and Opel, Saab and Vauxhall in Europe, is due to reveal 2004 earnings on 19 January. It said it would deliver a shareholder payout of $6.0-$6.5 per share this year, as promised, but that next year's earnings per share would be lower, at between $4.0-$5.0. "We're following a roadmap that we believe will deliver strong results," said GM chief executive Rick Waggoner. GM said it was expecting "reduced financial losses" in Europe in 2005. It is in the midst of cutting 12,000 jobs - one fifth of the European total - in a bid to cut costs. The biggest job losses are in Germany. Its vehicle businesses have gained market share in three out of four regions in 2004, achieving record profitability in Asia Pacific and returning to profit in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. The car maker has diversified into financial services, and is extending the reach of General Motors Acceptance Corp (GMAC), which has said it may enter the home loans market. GMAC has been a
A string of storms, typhoons and earthquakes has made 2004 the most expensive year on record for property insurers, according to Swiss Re. The world's second biggest insurer said disasters around the globe have seen property claims reach $42bn (£21.5bn). "2004 reinforces the trend towards higher losses," said Swiss Re. Tightly packed populations in the areas involved in natural and man-made disasters were to partly to blame for the rise in claims, it said. Some 95% of insurance claims were for natural catastrophes, with the rest attributed to made-made events. The largest claims came from the US, which was struck by four hurricanes, and Japan, which suffered the highest concentration of typhoons for decades plus a major earthquake. Europe suffered fewer natural disasters, but 191 people were killed and more than 2,000 injured in March after the terrorist attack on train stations in Madrid. The damages claimed in 2004 eclipsed previous years, including 2001 when the 11 September attacks pushed claims up to $37bn. Swiss Re said it had registered about 300 natural and man-made disasters around the world in 2004. Twenty-one thousand people lost their lives in the catastrophes with a cost to the global economy of around $105bn (£54bn).
The US budget deficit is set to hit a worse-than-expected $368bn (£197bn) this year, officials said on Tuesday. The cost of military operations still needs to be factored in, with analysts saying the deficit could end up a further $100bn in the red. Past Congressional Budget Office (CBO) forecasts said there would be a $348bn shortfall in the 2005 fiscal year. In recent months, the dollar has weakened amid market jitters about the size of the budget and trade deficits. In November, the gap between US exports and imports widened to more than $60bn, a record figure. The CBO says it envisages a further "orderly" decline in the greenback over the next two years as the twin deficit drives dollar investors away. But the non-partisan fiscal watchdog notes the declines will help exporters and boost US economic growth. The budget deficit hit a record $412bn in the 12 months to 30 September 2004, after reaching $377bn in the previous fiscal year. The CBO also forecast a total shortfall of $855bn for the years from 2006 to 2015, an improvement on previous projections. However, analysts say the new figures fail to take into account the potential $2-$3.8 trillion costs of the president's plan to revamp state pensions and extend tax cuts. The figure could also be worsened by any further military costs. Republicans have blamed the size of the deficit on slow economic conditions after the 11 September attacks and ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. One of President George
Germany's economy shrank 0.2% in the last three months of 2004, upsetting hopes of a sustained recovery. The figures confounded hopes of a 0.2% expansion in the fourth quarter in Europe's biggest economy. The Federal Statistics Office said growth for the whole of 2004 was 1.6%, after a year of contraction in 2003, down from an earlier estimate of 1.7%. It said growth in the third quarter had been zero, putting the economy at a standstill from July onward. Germany has been reliant on exports to get its economy back on track, as unemployment of more than five million and impending cuts to welfare mean German consumers have kept their money to themselves. Major companies including Volkswagen, DaimlerChrysler and Siemens have spent much of 2004 in tough talks with unions about trimming jobs and costs. According to the statistics office, Destatis, rising exports were outweighed in the fourth quarter by the continuing weakness of domestic demand. But the relentless rise in the value of the euro last year has also hit the competitiveness of German products overseas. The effect has been to depress prospects for the 12-nation eurozone as a whole, as well as Germany. Eurozone interest rates are at 2%, but senior officials at the rate-setting European Central Bank are beginning to talk about the threat of inflation, prompting fears that interest rates may rise. The ECB's mandate is to fight rising prices by boosting interest rates - and that could further threaten Germany's hopes of recovery.
Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein has said the club may consider seeking a full listing for its shares on the London Stock Exchange. Speaking at the Soccerex football business forum in Dubai, he said a full listing was "one of the options" for funding after the club moves to its new stadium. The club - which is currently listed on the smaller Ofex share exchange - is due to move into its new 60,000-seater Emirates Stadium at Ashburton Grove for the start of the 2006/07 season. Mr Dein also warned the current level of TV coverage of the Premiership may be reaching saturation level, with signs that match attendances have been dropping off in the first few months of this season. When Arsenal moves to its new stadium it will see its proportion of turnover from media earnings drop from 52% this season to 34% in two years' time. The club is hoping to increase matchday earnings from 29% to 40% of turnover, and has not ruled out other money-earning means, including a full share listing. "When the new stadium opens we will go through a thorough financial review," Mr Dein said. "Listing would be one option, but we are flexible and no decisions have been made on that issue yet. "We want to be in the best financial health - maybe clubs can do it (listing), Manchester United have been a success." Mr Dein said that, although television money and coverage had driven the English game forward in the past
A conflict between the Argentine State and water firm Aguas Argentinas, controlled by France's Suez, is casting doubt on the firm's future. The firm, which serves the province of Buenos Aires, wants a tariff rise of 60% to fund water-supply improvements. The government has rejected the 60% rise and wants Aguas Argentinas to make an annual investment of 400m pesos ($136m; £72.3m) in improvements. Planning Minister Julio De Vido has offered State help but not for "free". Mr De Vido said that the Argentine state would not make a contribution "in the form of a subsidy". He has said a contribution could be made in return for a seat on the company's board. He added that the government is in discussions with Aguas Argentinas about what role it might take in the event that a State contribution is agreed. However, Aguas Argentinas told the Argentine newspaper Clarin it would not accept any change to its legal structure and, in practice, this rules out State participation on its board. The Planning Minister didn't rule out the possibility of cancelling Aguas Argentinas water concession. Yet he added that he didn't like to do "futurology". But last week, Argentine Economic Minister, Roberto Lavagna, told the French media in Paris that the government was considering allowing a 16% increase in tariffs and the possibility of a State contribution to Aguas Argentinas infrastructure investments. Speaking in Buenos Aires, Mr De Vido later denied the possibility of any tariff increase and insisted that the annual investment
Japanese brewers are increasingly making money from beer-flavoured drinks rather than beer itself Beer and spirits are heavily taxed in Japan, driving breweries to search for alternatives. Japan's long economic downturn helped drive the trend, as drinkers looked for cheaper opportunities to drown their sorrows. Now, according to Asahi Breweries, the market for so-called "beer-like" drinks is set to grow 84% this year. Asahi is predicting profits to rise 50% in 2005 as it launches a drink based on soybean peptides rather than malt. The chosen name, "Shinnama" or "new draft", disguises its non-beer nature. But despite a record profit in 2004 of 30.6bn yen ($291m; £154m), up 31.8% on the previous year, Asahi is coming late to the market. Key rival Sapporo is already well-established with the beer-flavoured "Draft One". Suntory, meanwhile, is doing well with "Super Blue", which combines happoshu - an existing low-cost beer alternative made with malt and seawater - and shochu, a distilled alcohol derived from sweet potatoes or barley. Happoshu has been a mainstay of brewery profits for years, taking over from beer thanks to its low tax and therefore low cost. Kirin, the fourth big name, is launching its own "third-type" drink in April.
Two big US names have launched advertising campaigns to "set the record straight" about their products and corporate behaviour. The world's biggest retailer Wal-Mart took out more than 100 full page adverts in national newspapers. The group is trying to see off criticism over it pay deals, benefits package and promotion strategy. Meanwhile, drugs group Eli Lilly is planning a campaign against "false" claims about its product Prozac. Wal-Mart kicked off the battle with adverts in newspapers like the Wall Street Journal, using an open letter from company president Lee Scott saying it was time for the public to hear the "unfiltered truth". "There are lots of 'urban legends' going around these days about Wal-Mart, but facts are facts. Wal-Mart is good for consumers, good for communities and good for the US economy," Mr Scott said in a separate statement. Its adverts - and a new website - outlined the group's plans to create more than 10,000 US jobs in 2005. Wal-Mart's average pay is almost twice the national minimum wage of $5.15 (£3.90) an hour, while employees are offered health and life insurance, company stock and a retirement plan, the adverts say. Unions accuse Wal-Mart of paying staff less than its rivals do, with fewer benefits. In California, the company is fighting opposition to new stores amid allegations it forces local competitors out of business. Lawmakers in the state are also examining allegations that the firm burdens the state with an unfair proportion of employee health care costs. "I
Shares in Cairn Energy, a UK oil firm, have closed down 18% after a disappointing drilling update and a warning over possible tax demands. The company said tests had shown no significant finds in one of its Indian oil fields, but was upbeat about the potential of other areas. It also said the Indian government had told it to pay a production tax, for which Cairn argues it is not liable. Cairn's shares have jumped by almost 400% this year. Investors had piled into Cairn after the company announced significant oil finds in India this year. Chief executive Bill Gammell said on Friday he was "disappointed" with exploration in the so-called N-C extension area in Rajasthan. Investors had held high hopes of major oil finds in this area. But Cairn said estimates had been revised in what was a "significant downgrade of the initial expectation". Cairn also said that the government believed the company was liable to pay taxes under its production-sharing contract. The company said the rate would be about 900 rupees ($20.40; £10.50) per tonne, or seven barrels, of oil. A spokesman for the firm said that the tax would wipe 5% of the field's current value. "Cairn refutes the government's position," Mr Gammell said. He insisted that the contract made it clear that the tax should be shouldered by the licensee - India's state-run Oil & Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) - and not the contractor. "We have a pretty strong legal case here," he added, saying it
Shares in Australian budget airline Virgin Blue plunged 20% after it warned of a steep fall in full year profits. Virgin Blue said profits after tax for the year to March would be between 10% to 15% lower than the previous year. "Sluggish demand reported previously for November and now December 2004 continues," said Virgin Blue chief executive Brett Godfrey. Virgin Blue, which is 25% owned by Richard Branson, has been struggling to fend off pressure from rival Jetstar. It cut its full year passenger number forecast by "approximately 2.5%". Virgin Blue reported a 22% fall in first quarter profits in August 2004 due to tough competition. In November, first half profits were down due to slack demand and rising fuel costs. Virgin Blue was launched four years ago and now has roughly one third of Australia's domestic airline market. But the national carrier, Qantas, has fought back with its own budget airline, Jetstar, which took to the skies in May 2004. Sydney-listed Virgin Blue's shares recovered slightly to close 12% down on Wednesday. Shares in its major shareholder, Patrick Corporation - which owns 46% of Virgin Blue - had dropped 31% by the close.
Oil prices carried on rising on Wednesday after cold weather on both sides of the North Atlantic pushed US crude prices to four-month highs. Freezing temperatures and heavy snowfalls took crude oil prices past $50 a barrel on Tuesday for the first time since November. Declines in the dollar have also contributed to the rising oil price. US crude was trading at $51.39 at 0710 GMT in Asian electronic trade on Wednesday. A barrel of US crude oil closed up $2.80 at $51.15 in New York on Tuesday. Opec members said on Tuesday that, given such high prices, the cartel saw no reason to cut its output. Although below last year's peak of $55.67 a barrel, which was reached in October, prices are now well above 2004's average of $41.48. Brent crude also rose in London trading, adding $1.89 to $48.62 at the close. Much of western Europe and the north east of America has been shivering under unseasonably low temperatures in recent days. The decline in the US dollar to a five-week low against the euro has also served to inflate prices. "The primary factor is the weak dollar," said Victor Shum, a Singapore-based analyst with Purvin and Gertz. Expectations that a rebound in the dollar would halt the oil price rise were not immediately borne out on Wednesday morning, as oil prices carried on upwards as the dollar strengthened against the euro, the pound and the yen. Several Opec members said on Tuesday that a cut in production
The Brazilian stock market has risen to a record high as investors display growing confidence in the durability of the country's economic recovery. The main Bovespa index on the Sao Paolo Stock Exchange closed at 24,997 points on Friday, topping the previous record market close reached the previous day. The market's buoyancy reflects optimism about the Brazilian economy, which could grow by as much as 4.5% in 2004. Brazil is recovering from last year's recession - its worst in a decade. Economic output declined 0.2% in 2003 and President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva - elected as Brazil's first working-class president in 2002 - was strongly criticised for pursuing a hardline economic policy. Investors have praised his handling of the economy as foreign investment has risen, unemployment has fallen and inflation has been brought under control. Analysts believe the stock market will rise above the 25,000 mark for the first time before too long. "There should be more space for gains until the end of the year, somewhere up to 27,000 points," said Paschoal Tadeu Buonomo, head of equities trading at brokers TOV. Brazil's currency, the real, also rose to its highest level against the dollar in more than two years on Friday. Although interest rates still stand at a punitive 17.25%, inflation has fallen from 9% to 7% while exports are booming, particularly of agricultural products. "For the first time in decades, we have all three economic policy pillars in line during a recovery," Finance Minister Antonio Palocci told
Swiss drugmaker Novartis has announced 5.65bn euros ($7.4bn; £3.9bn) of purchases to make its Sandoz unit the world's biggest generic drug producer. Novartis, which last month forecast record sales for 2005, said it had bought all of Germany's Hexal. It also acquired 67.7% of Hexal's US affiliate Eon Labs, and offered to buy the remaining shares for $31 each. Novartis said that it would be able to make cost savings of about $200m a year following the acquisitions. Novartis' shares rose 1% to 57.85 Swiss francs in early trading. The deal will see Novartis' Sandoz business overtake Israel's Teva Pharmaceuticals as the world's biggest maker of generics. Based on 2004 figures the newly merged producer would have sales of more than $5bn, the company estimated. Novartis said that it would merge a number of departments, adding that there may be job cuts. "The strong growth outlook for Sandoz, which will create jobs, is expected to partially compensate for necessary reductions in the work force," the firm said in a statement. Generic drugs are chemically identical to their more expensive branded rivals. Producers such as Sandoz can copy the branded products usually after their patent protection expires and can sell them more cheaply as they do not have to pay research and development cost. There are more than 150 generic drugmakers worldwide and analysts have predicted consolidation in a market that they call fragmented. However, not all analysts were initially convinced about the deal. "This is a very expensive acquisition," Birgit
Parmalat, the Italian food group at the centre of one of Europe's most painful corporate scandals, has reported a doubling in profit. Its pre-tax earnings in the fourth quarter were 77m euros (£53m; $100m), up from 38m in the same period of 2003. Less welcome was the news that the firm had been fined 11m euros for having violated takeover rules five years ago. The firm sought bankruptcy protection in December 2003 after disclosing a 4bn-euro hole in its accounts. Overall, the company's debt is close to 12bn euros, and is falling only slowly. Its brands, well-known in Italy and overseas, have continued to perform strongly, however, and have barely lost revenue since the scandal broke. But a crucial factor for the company's future is the legal unwinding of its intensely complex financial position. On Tuesday, the company's administrator, turnaround expert Enrico Bondi, sued Morgan Stanley, its former banker, to return 136m euros relating to a 2003 bond deal. That brought to 49 the number of banks that Mr Bondi has sued, a mass of legal action that could bring in as much as 3bn euros. The company has also sued former auditors and financial advisors for damages. And criminal cases against the company's former management are proceeding separately.
South Korea's largest credit card firm has averted liquidation following a one trillion won ($960m; £499m) bail-out. LG Card had been threatened with collapse because of its huge debts but the firm's creditors and its former parent have stepped in to rescue it. A consortium of creditors and LG Group, a family owned conglomerate, have each put up $480m to stabilise the firm. LG Card has seven million customers and its collapse would have sent shockwaves through the country's economy. The firm's creditors - which own 99% of LG Card - have been trying to agree a deal to secure its future for several weeks. They took control of the company in January when it avoided bankruptcy only through a $4.5bn bail-out. They had threatened to delist the company, a move which would have triggered massive debt redemptions and forced the company into bankruptcy, unless agreement was reached on its future funding. "LG Card will not need any more financial aid after this," Laah Chong-gyu, executive director of Korea Development Bank - one of the firm's creditors - said. The agreement will see some 12 trillion won of debt converted into equity. "The purpose of the capital injection is to avoid delisting and the goal will be met," David Kim, an analyst at Sejong Securities, told Reuters. South Korea's consumer credit market has been slowly recovering from a crisis in 2002 when a credit bubble burst and millions of consumers fell behind on their debt repayments. LG Card returned to
Creditors of South Korea's top credit card firm have said they will put the company into liquidation if its ex-parent firm fails to back a bail-out. LG Card's creditors have given LG group until Wednesday to sign up to a $1.1bn rescue package. The firm avoided bankruptcy thanks to a $4.5bn bail-out in January 2004, which gave control to the creditors. LG Group has said any package should reflect the firm's new ownership, and it will not accept an unfair burden. At least seven million people in South Korea use LG Card's plastic for purchases. LG Card's creditors have threatened parent group LG Group with penalties if it fails to respond to their demands. "Creditors would seek strong financial sanctions against LG Group if LG Card is liquidated," said Yoo Ji-chang, governor of Korean Development Bank (KDB) - one of the card firm's major creditors. LG Group has said providing further help to the credit card issuer could hurt its corporate credibility and could spark shareholder lawsuits. It says it wants "fair and reasonable guidelines" on splitting the financial burden with the creditors, who now own 99.3% of LG Card. The creditors have asked the government to mediate to avoid any risk to the stability of financial markets, KDB said. Analysts believe a compromise is likely. "LG Group knows the impact on consumer demand and the national economy from a liquidation of LG Card," said Kim Yungmin, an equity strategist at Dongwon Investment Trust Management. LG Card almost collapsed in
The US dollar hovered close to record lows against the euro on Friday as concern grows about the size of the US budget deficit. Analysts predict that the dollar will remain weak in 2005 as investors worry about the state of the US economy. The Bush administration's apparent unwillingness to intervene to support the dollar has caused further concern. However, trading has been volatile over the past week because of technical and automated trading and light demand. This has amplified reactions to news, analysts said, adding that they expect markets to become less jumpy in January. The dollar was trading at $1.3652 versus the euro on Friday morning after hitting a fresh record low of $1.3667 on Thursday. One dollar bought 102.55 yen. Disappointing business figures from Chicago triggered the US currency's weakness on Thursday. The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its manufacturing index dropped to 61.2, a bigger fall than expected. "There are no dollar buyers now, especially after the Chicago data yesterday," said ABN Amro's Paul Mackel. At the same time, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi voiced concerns about the strength of the euro. Mr Berlusconi said the euro's strength was "absolutely worrying" for Italian exports. Mr Schroeder said in a newspaper article that stability in foreign exchange markets required a correction of global economic imbalances. Investors will now look towards February's meeting of finance ministers from the G7 industrialised nations in London for clues as to whether central banks will combine
The chief executive of the Fiat conglomerate has taken day-to-day control of its struggling car business in an effort to turn it around. Sergio Marchionne has replaced Herbert Demel as chief executive of Fiat Auto, with Mr Demel leaving the company. Mr Marchionne becomes the fourth head of the business - which is expected to make a 800m euro ($1bn) loss in 2004 - in as many years. Fiat underperformed the market in Europe last year, seeing flat sales. The car business has made an operating loss in five of the last six years and was forced to push back its break-even target from 2005 to 2006. The management changes are part of a wider shake-up of the business following Fiat's resolution of its dispute with General Motors. As part of a major restructuring, Fiat is to integrate the Maserati car company - currently owned by Ferrari - within its own operations. Ferrari, in which Fiat owns a majority stake, could be separately floated on the stock market in either 2006 or 2007. Mr Marchionne, who only joined the company last year, said Fiat Auto was now the "principal focus" of his attention. "I have made the decision to take on the post of chief executive of the auto unit to speed up the company's recovery," he said. "A profound cultural transformation is underway following a management reorganisation that has delivered a more agile and efficient structure," he added. Although Mr Marchionne does not have a background in the car
UK businesses are set to prosper during the next few months - but this could trigger more interest rate rises, according to a report. Optimism is at its highest since 1997 and business will reap the benefits of a continuing rise in public spending, say researchers at BDO Stoy Hayward. The Bank of England is expected to keep rates on hold this week - but they could go up later in the year. Rates are likely to rise after the anticipated general election in May. The BDO optimism index - a leading indicator of GDP growth two quarters ahead edged up in January to 102.5, from 102.2 in October. The rise is due, in part, to an increase in public spending and increased merger and acquisition activity. The only thing blighting business optimism this year will be uncertainties associated with the general election, BDO said. Its BDO's output index - which predicts GDP movements a quarter in advance - remained at 100.8 for January, implying GDP growth at 2.9% in the second quarter of 2005. However, the output index is being held back by recent interest rate rises, sterling's strength against the dollar and high oil prices, the group noted. Its inflation index, which has risen continuously over the last 8 months, climbed to 110.0 in January from 108.0 in October last year. "The UK is looking strong going into the general election, but businesses need to prepare themselves for a jolt ahead as the Bank of England reacts to
The Daily and Sunday Telegraph newspapers are axing 90 journalist jobs - 17% of their editorial staff. The Telegraph Group says the cuts are needed to fund an £150m investment in new printing facilities. Journalists at the firm met on Friday afternoon to discuss how to react to the surprise announcement. The cuts come against a background of fierce competition for readers and sluggish advertising revenues amid competition from online advertising. The National Union of Journalists has called on the management to recall the notice of redundancy by midday on Monday or face a strike ballot. Pearson's Financial Times said last week it was offering voluntary redundancy to about 30 reporters. The National Union of Journalists said it stood strongly behind the journalists and did not rule out a strike. "Managers have torn up agreed procedures and kicked staff in the teeth by sacking people to pay for printing facilities," said Jeremy Dear, NUJ General Secretary. NUJ official Barry Fitzpatrick said the company had ignored the 90-day consultation period required for companies planning more than 10 redundancies. "They have shown a complete disregard for the consultative rights of our members," said Mr Fitzpatrick, who added that the company now planned to observe the consultation procedures. The two Telegraph titles currently employ 521 journalists. Some broadsheet newspapers - especially those which have not moved to a tabloid format - have suffered circulation declines, which are hitting revenues. The Telegraph has announced no plans to go tabloid although both The Independent and
Fiat is to stop making six-cylinder petrol engines for its sporty Alfa Romeo subsidiary, unions at the Italian carmaker have said. The unions claim Fiat is to close the Fiat Powertrain plant at Arese near Milan and instead source six-cylinder engines from General Motors. Fiat has yet to comment on the matter, but the unions say the new engines will be made by GM in Australia. The news comes a week after GM pulled out of an agreement to buy Fiat. GM had to pay former partner Fiat 1.55bn euros ($2bn; £1.1bn) to get out of a deal which could have forced it to buy the Italian carmaker outright. Fiat and GM also ended their five-year alliance and two joint ventures in engines and purchasing, but did agree to continue buying each other's engines. "Powertrain told us today that Alfa Romeo engines will no longer be made in Arese," said union leader Vincenzo Lilliu, as reported by the Reuters news agency. "The assembly line will be dismantled and the six-cylinder Alfa Romeo motor will be replaced with an engine GM produces in Australia." Reuters also said that Mr Lilliu and other union bosses shouted insults at Fiat chairman Luca di Montezemolo, following a meeting on Tuesday regarding the future of the Arese plant. The unions said the end of engine production at the facility would mean the loss of 800 jobs. All Alfa Romeo models can be bought with a six-cylinder engine - the 147, 156, 156 Sportwagon, 166, GTV,
US-German carmaker DaimlerChrysler has sold 2.1% more cars in 2004 than in the previous year, as solid Chrysler sales offset a weak showing for Mercedes. Sales totalled 3.9 million units worldwide during 2004, the company said at the Detroit Motor Show. A switch to new models hit luxury marque Mercedes-Benz, with sales down 3.1% at 1.06 million. Chrysler avoided the fate of US rivals Ford and General Motors, both of whom lost ground to Japanese firms. Its sales rose 3.5% to 2.7 million units. Similarly on the up was the Smart brand of compact cars, with the division's sales jumping by 21.1% during 2004 to 136,000. The future of the brand - which is controlled by the Mercedes group within DaimlerChrysler - remains in question, however. Smart has consistently lost money since it started trading in 1998, and new model launches are now "on hold", said Mercedes chief executive Eckhard Cordes. In Europe, the Smart will now go on sale through regular Mercedes dealerships as well as its own dealer network, Mr Cordes said.
The stock market in Jakarta has seen its biggest slide in a month, after the country doubled the likely cost of rebuilding from the Asian tsunami. The fall came as Indonesia said it expected debt repayments of up to 30 trillion rupiah ($3.2bn; £1.7bn) to be frozen to help pay for the recovery. By Monday's close, the Jakarta Stock Exchange was down 2.1% at 1,011.15. Bar a slight dip at the New Year, The JSE had risen steadily by 4.7% since the tsunami hit on 26 December. Construction and property companies in particular have gained ground, although banks were among the main fallers on Monday. So far, more than 100,000 people are believed to have been killed in Indonesia, the country closest to the earthquake which triggered the great wave. On Friday, the government said its five-year estimate of rebuilding costs for Banda Aceh province - much of which was flattened by the quake and the tsunami - was 20 trillion rupiah ($2.2bn; £1.1bn), twice what it had previously estimated. That cost could be defrayed by temporary debt relief. On Monday, Indonesian economy minister Aburizal Bakrie told reporters that the Paris Club group of creditor countries was expected to freeze 20-30bn rupiah in payments due in 2005 and 2006. "We hope we can resume the repayments at least from 2007," Mr Bakrie said. French finance minister Herve Gaymard said on Sunday that the Paris Club had already agreed to a moratorium on repayments for tsunami-hit countries ahead of its meeting
General Motors, the world's largest car maker, has confirmed that it will build a new medium-sized Cadillac BLS at its loss-making Saab factory in Sweden. The car, unveiled at the Geneva motor show, is intended to compete in the medium-sized luxury car market. It will not be sold in the US, said GM Europe president Carl-Peter Forster. As part of its efforts to make the US marque appeal to European drivers, the car will be the first Cadillac with a diesel engine. GM's announcement should go some way to allay fears of the Saab factory's closure. The factory in Trollhaettan has been at the centre of rumours about GM's planned severe cutbacks in its troubled European operations. But the group's new commitment to the Swedish factory may not be welcomed by the group's Opel workers in Ruesselsheim, Germany. They may now have to face a larger proportion of GM's cuts. Neither will the announcement be seen as unalloyed good news in Sweden, since it reflects Saab's failure to make significant inroads into the lucrative European luxury car market. For years, Saab has consistently said it is competing head-on with BMW, Mercedes and Jaguar. The segment's leaders do not agree. GM's plans to build the American marque in Sweden is part of its efforts to push it as an alternative luxury brand for European drivers. In the US, it has long been established as an upmarket brand - even the presidential limousine carries the badge. Yet it could prove tough for
Quarterly profits at US media giant TimeWarner jumped 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three months to December, from $639m year-earlier. The firm, which is now one of the biggest investors in Google, benefited from sales of high-speed internet connections and higher advert sales. TimeWarner said fourth quarter sales rose 2% to $11.1bn from $10.9bn. Its profits were buoyed by one-off gains which offset a profit dip at Warner Bros, and less users for AOL. Time Warner said on Friday that it now owns 8% of search-engine Google. But its own internet business, AOL, had has mixed fortunes. It lost 464,000 subscribers in the fourth quarter profits were lower than in the preceding three quarters. However, the company said AOL's underlying profit before exceptional items rose 8% on the back of stronger internet advertising revenues. It hopes to increase subscribers by offering the online service free to TimeWarner internet customers and will try to sign up AOL's existing customers for high-speed broadband. TimeWarner also has to restate 2000 and 2003 results following a probe by the US Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), which is close to concluding. Time Warner's fourth quarter profits were slightly better than analysts' expectations. But its film division saw profits slump 27% to $284m, helped by box-office flops Alexander and Catwoman, a sharp contrast to year-earlier, when the third and final film in the Lord of the Rings trilogy boosted results. For the full-year, TimeWarner posted a profit of $3.36bn, up 27% from its 2003 performance, while
US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has given a speech at a Scottish church in honour of the pioneering economist, Adam Smith. He delivered the 14th Adam Smith Lecture in Kirkcaldy, Fife. The Adam Smith Lecture celebrates the author of 1776's Wealth of Nations, which became a bible of capitalism. Dr Greenspan was invited by Chancellor Gordon Brown, whose minister father John used to preach at the St Bryce Kirk church. Mr Brown introduced Dr Greenspan to the 400 invited guests as the "the world's greatest economist". Dr Greenspan, 79, who has been in the UK to attend the G7 meeting in London, said the world could never repay the debt of gratitude it owed to Smith, whose genius he compared to that of Mozart. He said the philosopher was a "towering contributor to the modern world". "Kirkcaldy, the birthplace in 1723 of Adam Smith and, by extension, of modern economics, is also of course, where your chancellor was reared. "I am led to ponder to what extent the chancellor's renowned economic and financial skills are the result of exposure to the subliminal intellect-enhancing emanation in this area." He continued: "Smith reached far beyond the insights of his predecessors to frame a global view of how market economics, just then emerging, worked. "In so doing he supported changes in societal organisation that were to measurably enhance standards of living." Dr Greenspan said Smith's revolutionary philosophy on human self-interest, laissez-faire economics and competition had been a force for good in the
Shares in UK drinks and food firm Allied Domecq have risen on speculation that it could be the target of a takeover by France's Pernod Ricard. Reports in the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times suggested that the French spirits firm is considering a bid, but has yet to contact its target. Allied Domecq shares in London rose 4% by 1200 GMT, while Pernod shares in Paris slipped 1.2%. Pernod said it was seeking acquisitions but refused to comment on specifics. Pernod's last major purchase was a third of US giant Seagram in 2000, the move which propelled it into the global top three of drinks firms. The other two-thirds of Seagram was bought by market leader Diageo. In terms of market value, Pernod - at 7.5bn euros ($9.7bn) - is about 9% smaller than Allied Domecq, which has a capitalisation of £5.7bn ($10.7bn; 8.2bn euros). Last year Pernod tried to buy Glenmorangie, one of Scotland's premier whisky firms, but lost out to luxury goods firm LVMH. Pernod is home to brands including Chivas Regal Scotch whisky, Havana Club rum and Jacob's Creek wine. Allied Domecq's big names include Malibu rum, Courvoisier brandy, Stolichnaya vodka and Ballantine's whisky - as well as snack food chains such as Dunkin' Donuts and Baskin-Robbins ice cream. The WSJ said that the two were ripe for consolidation, having each dealt with problematic parts of their portfolio. Pernod has reduced the debt it took on to fund the Seagram purchase to just 1.8bn euros,
Sri Lanka faces a $1.3bn (£691m) bill in 2005 for reconstruction after the tsunami which killed more than 30,000 of its people, its central bank says. This estimate is preliminary, bank governor Sunil Mendis told reporters, and could rise in 2006. The island state is asking for about $320m from the International Monetary Fund to help pay for relief, he said. The bank has 5bn rupees ($50m; £27m) set aside to lend at a lower interest rate to those who lost property. According to Mr Mendis, half the IMF support could come from a freeze on debt repayments, which would free up resources immediately. The rest could come from a five-year emergency loan. Sri Lanka is hoping for a wider freeze from other creditors. The Paris Club of 19 creditors meets on 12 January to discuss a debt moratorium for the nations hit by the tsunami, which ravaged south and east Asia on 26 December. Some 150,000 people across the region are feared to be dead and millions have been left homeless and destitute. A full reckoning of the economic cost to Sri Lanka of the tsunami will not be clear for some time to come. But already it looks likely that growth in the first half of 2005 will slow, Mr Mendis told reporters, although he would not say by how much. One side-effect of the disaster has been that the value of the rupee has risen as foreign funds have flooded into the country. The currency has strengthened
Shares of Skis Rossignol, the world's largest ski-maker, have jumped as much as 15% on speculation that it will be bought by US surfwear firm Quiksilver. The owners of Rossignol, the Boix-Vives family, are said to be considering an offer from Quiksilver. Analysts believe other sporting goods companies may now take a closer look at Rossignol, prompting an auction and pushing the sale price higher. Nike and K2 have previously been mentioned as possible suitors. Rossignol shares touched 17.70 euros, before falling back to trade 7.8% higher at 16.60 euros. European sporting goods companies have seen foreign revenues squeezed by a slump in the value of the US dollar, making a takeover more attractive, analysts said. Companies such as Quiksilver would be able to cut costs by selling Rossignol skis through their shops, they added. The Boix-Vives family is thought to have spent the past couple of years sounding out possible suitors for Rossignol, which also makes golf equipment, snowboards and sports clothing.
Australian mining firm WMC Resources has said it is worth up to 30% more than a hostile 7.4bn Australian dollar ($5.8bn; £3bn) bid by rival Xstrata. There is now pressure on Swiss-based Xstrata to increase its takeover offer. A report from investment firm Grant Samuel in WMC defence documents values WMC shares at A$7.17 to A$8.24, against Xstrata's bid of A$6.35 a share. Analysts said the defence documents provided more details on WMC, and may trigger a possible rival bid. "If a bid is going to emerge it is probably likely in the next one to two weeks," said Daiwa Securities analyst Mark Pervan. He said the valuation would put increased pressure on Xstrata to look at "sweetening" its offer. Marc Gonsalves, an executive at Xstrata, said: "We will review the information contained in the target's statement over the next week or so." He added: "While we will review the assumptions made by Grant Samuel in detail, we are extremely sceptical of their conclusion, and suggest that WMC shareholders take extreme care in presuming that these optimistic assumptions are capable of being realised." Last month Australia's competition watchdog said it would not oppose the purchase of WMC by Zurich and London-based Xstrata. On Tuesday, WMC chairman Tommie Bergman said in a statement the directors believed it was in shareholders' best interest to reject the offer. He said WMC would pursue "value-creating options" provided by a portfolio of "world class assets". And WMC chief executive Andrew Michelmore claimed the Xstrata offer
Russian oil firm Yukos has sued four companies for their role in last year's forced state auction of its key oil production unit Yuganskneftegas. Yukos is claiming more than $20bn (£11bn) in damages after Yugansk was sold in December to settle back taxes. The four companies named in the law suit are gas giant Gazprom, its unit Gazpromneft, investment company Baikal, and state oil firm Rosneft. Yukos submitted the suit in Houston, where it filed for bankruptcy. As well as suing for damages, Yukos has asked the US court to send its tax dispute with the Russian government to an international arbitrator. It also has submitted a reorganisation plan as part of its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. The clash between Yukos and the Kremlin came to a head last year when Yukos was hit with a bill of more than $27bn in back taxes and unpaid fines. To settle the bill, Russia forced Yukos to sell off Yuganskneftegas. Yukos called the sale illegal and has turned to courts in the US in an effort to regain control of the oil production business. It also has vowed to use all legal means at its disposal to go after any firm that tries to buy or take control of its assets. Earlier this month it sued the Russian government for $28.3bn. Analysts have questioned whether a US court has any jurisdiction over Russian companies, while Moscow officials have dismissed Yukos' legal wrangling as meaningless. In Houston, bankruptcy Judge Letitia Clark will start
MG Rover's proposed tie-up with China's top carmaker has been delayed due to concerns by Chinese regulators, according to the Financial Times. The paper said Chinese officials had been irritated by Rover's disclosure of its talks with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp in October. The proposed deal was seen as crucial to safeguarding the future of Rover's Longbridge plant in the West Midlands. However, there are growing fears that the deal could result in job losses. The Observer reported on Sunday that nearly half the workforce at Longbridge could be under threat if the deal goes ahead. Shanghai Automotive's proposed £1bn investment in Rover is awaiting approval by its owner, the Shanghai city government and by the National Development and Reform Commission, which oversees foreign investment by Chinese firms. According to the FT, the regulator has been annoyed by Rover's decision to talk publicly about the deal and the intense speculation which has ensued about what it will mean for Rover's future. As a result, hopes that approval of the deal may be fast-tracked have disappeared, the paper said. There has been continued speculation about the viability of Rover's Longbridge plant because of falling sales and unfashionable models. According to the Observer, 3,000 jobs - out of a total workforce of 6,500 - could be lost if the deal goes ahead. The paper said that Chinese officials believe cutbacks will be required to keep the MG Rover's costs in line with revenues. It also said that the production of new models
Japan's economy teetered on the brink of a technical recession in the three months to September, figures show. Revised figures indicated growth of just 0.1% - and a similar-sized contraction in the previous quarter. On an annual basis, the data suggests annual growth of just 0.2%, suggesting a much more hesitant recovery than had previously been thought. A common technical definition of a recession is two successive quarters of negative growth. The government was keen to play down the worrying implications of the data. "I maintain the view that Japan's economy remains in a minor adjustment phase in an upward climb, and we will monitor developments carefully," said economy minister Heizo Takenaka. But in the face of the strengthening yen making exports less competitive and indications of weakening economic conditions ahead, observers were less sanguine. "It's painting a picture of a recovery... much patchier than previously thought," said Paul Sheard, economist at Lehman Brothers in Tokyo. Improvements in the job market apparently have yet to feed through to domestic demand, with private consumption up just 0.2% in the third quarter.
Former Labour leader Neil Kinnock has officially been made a life peer during a ceremony in the House of Lords. He will be known Baron Kinnock of Bedwellty - after his former constituency. Lord Kinnock - who led Labour from 1983 until 1992 - was until recently one of Britain's EU commissioners. A former critic of the House of Lords, he has said he will use the Upper House to advocate its reform and to talk on issues like higher education. "I accepted the kind invitation to enter the House of Lords as a working peer for practical political reasons," he said when his peerage was first announced. "It is a good base for campaigning on national issues like education, sustainable transport, industrial change and the ageing society and global concerns, particularly poverty and oppression." During his induction into the Upper House, Lord Kinnock was accompanied by Lords Leader Baroness Amos and Baroness Royall of Blaisdon, a former aide to the ex-Labour leader. It has been a long journey for the new Lord Kinnock from his earliest days as a rebellious youngster in the south Wales valleys. Born in 1942 in Tredegar to a miner father and nurse mother, he attended Lewis Boys' School in nearby Pengam, known then as the "Eton of the valleys". From there he went to Cardiff University, where he met his future wife Glenys, now a Labour MEP. After a brief career as a tutor for the Workers' Educational Association, he became an MP at
The leader of the British National Party has been arrested as part of a police inquiry following the screening of a BBC documentary. A party spokesman said Nick Griffin was arrested on Tuesday morning on suspicion of incitement to commit racial hatred. West Yorkshire police confirmed they had arrested a 45-year-old man from outside their area. BNP founding chairman John Tyndall was arrested on Sunday on the same charge. In July, the BBC documentary Secret Agent featured covertly-filmed footage of BNP activists. Mr Griffin is the twelfth man to be arrested following the documentary. Nine men from West Yorkshire and another man from Leicester have been arrested and freed on bail. Seven of the men had been held variously in connection with suspected racially aggravated public order offences, conspiracy to commit criminal damage and possession of a firearm. Two men, both from Keighley, were arrested in September on suspicion of conspiracy to commit criminal damage. A 24-year-old man from Leicester was detained on Monday on suspicion of incitement to commit racial hatred. A BNP spokesperson said Mr Tyndall, from Brighton, was arrested following a speech he made in Burnley, Lancashire, and was released on police bail.
Gordon Brown is to freeze petrol duty increases, fund a £1bn package to avoid big council tax rises and boost childcare and maternity leave. In an upbeat pre-Budget report, he slightly increased borrowing but insisted economic targets would be met. The chancellor also hailed the longest period of growth in UK "industrial history" but denied he was "gloating". But Oliver Letwin, for the Tories, attacked government red tape and debt, dubbing Mr Brown "Sir Wastealot". The shadow chancellor said Mr Brown's "golden rule" had "turned to dross in his hands" and said he was borrowing to spend, not invest, with predicted debt over the coming years totalling £170bn. Mr Letwin told MPs: "The tide is going out on the chancellor's credibility. He is spending, borrowing and taxing so much because he is not getting value for taxpayer's money." Vincent Cable, for the Liberal Democrats, accused Mr Brown of ducking tough choices. He said: "Last week the prime minister gave us the politics of fear; this week the chancellor has offered the economics of complacency. "There are serious challenges ahead from the falling dollar and from the rapid downturn in the UK housing market and rising personal debt. But they have not been confronted." Mr Brown rejected the Lib Dem's call to open up the government's books to the National Audit Office, saying decisions on tax and spending should be made by ministers. Some economists say his forecasts on public finances are wishful thinking. BBC economic editor Evan Davis said the
Anger at council tax rises spilled over into mass protests in 2003, when the average English bill rose 12.9%. Pensioners' protests spread - some marched, others simply refused to pay the increase. Some, such as 83-year-old Elizabeth Winkfield, said they would rather go to jail. The Audit Commission found the whole local government finance system was "fundamentally flawed" and all three of the main parties have said the system has to change. Labour says it wants to retain the property-based tax but reform it to make it fairer and says there is scope for councils to become more efficient. They say they are already helping pensioners with council tax bills, with a £100 lump sum for the over-70s and last year the government capped some local councils' budgets to keep demands down. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott has said the current system is not sustainable in the long term and said there would be "radical reform". The party says this year's increases will be the lowest in a decade. A report last year looked at increasing the number of council tax bands and other forms of local taxation, such as reformed business rates, although no decisions have been made. An independent inquiry into its findings, the Lyons review, is due to report back at the end of 2005. The Tories have promised a reduction on bills for pensioners, who they say have been hardest hit by year-on-year increases in council tax. They say they can save £4bn on "government waste",
New Home Secretary Charles Clarke has vowed to plough on with plans for ID cards despite a call for him to "pause for thought" from Charles Kennedy. The Lib Dem leader said David Blunkett's resignation was a "good opportunity" to question whether the legislation was necessary. But Mr Clarke said he had supported the plans when Mr Blunkett argued for them in Cabinet and he supported them now. "ID cards are a means to creating a more secure society," he said. Mr Clarke acknowledged how the measure was introduced remained a matter for debate but he said legislation had already been "significantly influenced" by the recommendations of the Commons' home affairs committee. The issue would be debated in Parliament next Monday as scheduled he insisted. Earlier Mr Kennedy, whose party opposes the ID cards plan as "deeply flawed" said with Christmas coming up the new home secretary had time to think again. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Mr Clarke had been reported to be less enthusiastic about ID cards than his predecessors. "Wouldn't this be a good opportunity for a new home secretary, a new broom, to sweep clean in this respect and why do we need this legislation in the first place?" he asked. Earlier this week the Tories announced they would back the government's plans although Michael Howard was forced to deny the shadow cabinet was split over its decision. They had decided to support the plans as the police said they would help fight
It's become commonplace to argue that Blair and Brown are like squabbling school kids and that they (and their supporters) need to grow up and stop bickering. But this analysis in fact gets it wrong. It's not just children who fight - adults do too. And there are solid reasons why even a trivial argument between mature protagonists can be hard to stop once its got going. The key feature of an endless feud is that everyone can agree they'd be better off if it ended - but everyone wants to have the last word. Each participant genuinely wants the row to stop, but thinks it worth prolonging the argument just a tiny bit to ensure their view is heard. Their successive attempts to end the argument with their last word ensure the argument goes on and on and on. (In the case of Mr Blair and Mr Brown, successive books are published, ensuring the issues never die.) Now this isn't because the participants are stupid - it's actually each individual behaving entirely rationally, given the incentives facing them. Indeed, there's even a piece of economic theory that explains all this. Nothing as obscure as "post-neo-classical endogenous growth theory" which the chancellor himself once quoted - but a ubiquitous piece of game theory which all respectable policy wonks are familiar with. It's often referred to as the "prisoner's dilemma", based on a parable much told in economics degree courses... about a sheriff and two prisoners. The story goes that two
Labour and the Conservatives are still telephoning the millions of people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing "cold calls". The parties say they can stick to the rules by ensuring that their calls are not marketing - for instance by asking about people's voting intentions. The Lib Dems are asking the watchdog overseeing the rules to stop the calls. The information commissioner's office says surveys are allowed but there is a "grey" area if personal data is kept. Telephone call centres are expected to be used as never before by all the three major parties in the run-up to the general election. But seven million telephone numbers are on the Telephone Preference Service (TPS) lists, which ban unsolicited sales and marketing calls. Both schemes are run by the Direct Marketing Association and backed by EU directives on privacy and electronic communications. The rules on marketing calls apply as much to politicians as to private sector companies. But that does not mean Labour and the Tories are not calling people signed up to the TPS. A Labour Party spokesman told the BBC News website the party avoided those on TPS lists when telephoning people about membership or fundraising. But that did not happen for "voter identification" calls. "When we ask which party they will vote for, that is not marketing and we have very clear legal advice that it is not," he said. "So it is not covered by the Telephone Preference Service." He said
Betty Boothroyd has said the House of Lords needs its own Speaker and that peers should lead the way on reforming the upper chamber. Baroness Boothroyd, who was the first woman to be Commons Speaker, said she believed Tony Blair initiated reforms without a clear outcome in mind. "Now we have to take care of it ourselves and make the best of it," she told the BBC's Breakfast with Frost. In 1999 Labour removed all but 92 of the Lords' 750 hereditary peers. That was billed as the first stage of reform of the institution. The lord chancellor hinted further reforms could be unveiled in the next Labour manifesto. "I think we need to look very carefully at the relationship between the Lords and the Commons," Lord Falconer told BBC1's Breakfast With Frost. "How it interacts with the Commons is a very, very important issue. "We need to address the issue in the manifesto, but you will have to wait for when the manifesto comes." The lord chancellor currently has the role of House of Lords speaker. He is also head of the judiciary and a member of the Cabinet as constitutional affairs secretary. Lady Boothroyd said she believed it was unacceptable for the lord chancellor to have the role of Speaker. "I would really like to see a Speaker of the House of Lords," she said. "I don't go for the idea of somebody - a lord chancellor - who is head of the judiciary, a senior Cabinet minister
Tony Blair says he will be facing the issue of trust and his own integrity head on during the election campaign. During a question and answer session with first-time voters on Five News, Mr Blair said he had no option but to "confront it" by talking to people. He also dismissed claims government plans to get 50% of young people into university would devalue degrees. He was not "forcing" anyone to go to university, but places should be there for those who wanted them, he said. In answer to a question from 22-year-old Liverpool student David Dunne about concerns over the prime minister's personal integrity, Mr Blair said talking was the only answer. "You've just got to confront it and say to people let's have a discussion on the things that worry you, the things that make you say 'I can't trust you' or 'I am against you on this.'" The "worst thing in politics" was that the electorate only got "little snatches of policy" from things like Prime Minister's Questions and the news headlines. This was why he wanted to "get out of the 30 seconds on the news," he added. By talking through policies at least people understood the reason for them, even if they did not agree with them, he said. Mr Blair also faced questions about British policy on Iran and its alleged nuclear weapons programme. He insisted there was no plan for an invasion of the country saying: "Sometimes people say because of what has
Issues that Muslims should be considering before voting in the next general election are to be debated by UK community representatives. The event is being held by the Muslim Association of Britain (MAB), which believes Muslim voters could influence the result in up to 50 constituencies. Last year MAB, which opposed the war in Iraq, urged Muslims not to vote for Labour in the European elections. But a spokesman stressed the meeting was "not necessarily anti-Labour". "This meeting is not anti-party in particular, it's anti-policy, it's on the issues we are going to ask Muslims to vote on," MAB spokesman Dr Azzam Tamimi said of Tuesday's event. "There are issues of concern to Muslims, and Muslims generally agree on them but have not in the past been aware of how a vote can serve these issues." Dr Tamimi said the main issues Muslims should consider were what he referred to as the war on Iraq, the Palestinian situation, the erosion of civil liberties for Muslims in the UK and economic, social and education problems. Approximately 1.1m of the UK's 1.6m Muslims are of voting age. Previous election research has shown the overwhelming majority have traditionally voted Labour, but more recent studies have suggested Labour support has been falling away significantly among some Muslim voters. Anger over the war in Iraq has appeared to be the main reason, with many saying it was "unjustified". Representatives from a number of Muslim organisations will attend Tuesday's event. Among them will be the Muslim
Labour's leadership put on a show of unity at a campaign poster launch after MPs criticised Tony Blair and Gordon Brown over reports of their rift. Mr Brown was joined at the launch by John Prescott and Alan Milburn, the man controversially put in charge of election planning by Mr Blair. A private meeting on Monday saw normally loyal MPs warn that feuding could jeopardise their election hopes. It follows a new book charting disputes between prime minister and chancellor. The event was the first time Mr Milburn has shared a platform with the chancellor since taking Mr Brown's traditional poll planning role. But the pair chatted amicably and Mr Brown insisted he was happy with his current campaign task. Asked about how he would deal with claims that he did not trust the prime minister, Mr Brown replied: "You can see that our record on the economy is about the British people trusting us to run the economy." He refused to comment on the new book, saying nobody should be distracted from the business of government. Mr Brown later told reporters: "Of course I trust the prime minister." Downing Street cited that comment when reporters' suggested Mr Brown had pointedly failed to deny claims he had once told Mr Blair: "There is nothing you could ever say to me now that I could ever believe". Labour's new posters say Britain is enjoying the lowest inflation since the 1960s, lowest unemployment for 29 years and the lowest mortgage rates for
Tony Blair's big speech will be looked back on as the performance that kicked off the election campaign. That poll may still be about 16 weeks away, but there can be little doubt left that the campaign is now in full swing. The prime minister used his speech to a selected audience in the south east to set out his broad brush election manifesto. There was a detailed account of the government's past record, with a major emphasis on the economy and public services. There was an attempt to draw the line under the gossip surrounding his rift with Chancellor Gordon Brown. And there was an insistence on the importance of the party continuing to operate as unremittingly "New" Labour - although that may continue to irritate his chancellor. There was little in terms of concrete proposals or what might form manifesto pledges, although the prime minister talked about a "New Labour manifesto that will be aimed at all sections of society". His was more a speech designed to remind people, and some in his own party, precisely what New Labour stood for, and to leave them in no doubt there would not be any shrinking away from that approach. And, for some, that means showing that New Labour actually does stand for something - that it is, as he said, more than "an electoral device". To that end he set out a broad programme aimed to appeal to both middle England voters who switched to the party in 1997
Michael Howard has launched an attack on the cost of Britain's "chaotic" asylum system under Tony Blair. The Tory leader said English local authorities have spent more than £3bn - or £140 per household - on asylum since Labour won power in 1997. Mr Howard is expected to tell activists in Kent that voters' tolerance and desire to help others are being abused. Other parties and refugee agencies have already attacked Tory plans for annual limits on numbers. Mr Howard said Britain should take its fair share of the world's "genuine refugees". "The anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - where my grandmother was murdered along with over a million others - has reminded all of us that we have a moral responsibility to those fleeing persecution," he was due to say. "But if we are to fulfil responsibility, we have to get a grip of the system. "Fair play matters. People want a government that upholds the rules - not one that turns a blind eye when they are bent and abused," he said. "And let's be clear. Our asylum system is being abused - and with it Britain's generosity." Earlier this week, Mr Howard said his party's plans to cut immigration were not racist, arguing they would make the asylum system fairer for genuine refugees. If elected, his party would institute an annual limit on asylum and all claims would be processed overseas. That prompted some charities to say the plans would put refugees' lives at risk if
The Tories have accused Tony Blair of being "terrified" of scrutiny after Labour unveiled details of how it will fight the next general election. In a break with tradition, the party will ditch the leader's battle bus and daily press briefings in Westminster. Instead Mr Blair will travel to key cities and marginal seats to deliver the party's message. Labour election chief Alan Milburn denied the party was trying to "hide" the prime minister. He promised "the most positive and upbeat election campaign Labour has ever run". But Tory co-chairman Liam Fox said Labour's plans showed Mr Blair was "terrified of facing proper scrutiny". "At a time when the British people are looking for more accountability and openness, this government turns its back on them; abandoning plans to tour the country and scared to face journalists in a press conference - it does rather beg the question, 'What have they got to hide?'" The general election is widely expected next May and all the parties are stepping up their campaign preparations. Mr Milburn said the economy would take centre stage in Labour's campaign in what would be a "watershed" election and the "last stand of the Thatcherites". Mr Milburn said Labour's slogan would be "Britain is working - Don't let the Tories wreck it." The tone of the campaign, said Mr Milburn, would be more conversational than rhetorical; more spontaneous less scripted; less national more local and less based on issues and more concentrated on people. The approach is particularly
Parents who refuse to allow former partners contact with their children could be electronically tagged under plans being considered by ministers. Curfews and community service orders were other options which could be used if court orders to allow parental access were defied, Lord Falconer said. The constitutional affairs secretary outlined some of the plans on Tuesday. He denied fathers' activists had forced the changes, telling the BBC "there is a recognition that something is wrong". Between 15,000 and 20,000 couples go to court to resolve access disputes each year, although in nine out of 10 separations there is no court intervention. Lord Falconer told BBC Radio 4's Today programme he hoped voluntary mediation could help solve disputes before they reached court. But he opposed compulsory mediation, saying that it would lead to many people taking part with the wrong attitude. Other plans include: - Parenting plans to give advice on access arrangements, based on real-life examples that have worked in the past - Extending in-court conciliation - more informal hearings before contested court cases - Better access to legal, emotional and practical advice by telephone and internet - Legal aid changes to give incentives for early resolution of disputes. Judges can already jail parents who breach contact orders but that was a "nuclear option" which was rarely used as it was not seen as being in the child's interests, a spokesman said. The aim of the new legislation was to provide a "medium range" of penalties, such as fines, community
Tory leader Michael Howard says his party can save £35bn in government spending by tackling waste. The money would be ploughed back into frontline services like the NHS and schools with the rest used to cut government borrowing and reduce taxes. The Tory leader has also shrugged off the defection of one of his MPs, Robert Jackson, a former minister, to Labour. Mr Howard said that these things happened in politics and it would not affect the outcome of the election. "Let's be realistic - the election is not going to be decided on the basis of what Mr Jackson did", he told BBC 1's Breakfast with Frost programme. However the defection on Saturday has cast a shadow over the launch of the Conservatives' spending plans. Fuller details are due to be unveiled on Monday. The bulk of the £35bn saved by tackling bureaucracy and inefficient systems will go back into frontline services, Mr Howard said. The £12bn left over would then be spent on reducing government borrowing, he added. However, the remainder would deal with some of the "unfair taxes". "Almost every independent expert says if you get another Labour government you are going to have to pay higher taxes," Mr Howard insisted. "Because borrowing is going up, it is out of control, that is bound to lead to higher taxes or higher interest rates or both. "So part of the £12bn we are going to apply to filling the government's black hole, reducing the borrowing. "The rest will
The "best person for the job" should be appointed lord chancellor, and not necessarily a lawyer or MP, the courts minister has told MPs. Under reforms, the post of lord chancellor is to be stripped of its judicial functions. "The lord chancellor...no more needs to be a lawyer than the Secretary of Health needs to be a doctor," said courts minister Christopher Leslie. The Constitutional Reform Bill was entering its second reading on Monday. Mr Leslie said: "The prime minister should be able to appoint the best person for the job whether they sit in the House of Lords or the House of Commons." Under the reforms, the Law Lords will also be replaced as the UK's highest legal authority by a Supreme Court and judges will be appointed by an independent panel rather than ministers. In December the Lords rejected a plea by current Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer that the holder of the job should not necessarily be a lawyer or a peer. The peers voted by 229 to 206 to say in law that lord chancellors must also be peers. The debate was carried over from the last Parliamentary session, but with an impending general election time is crucial for the government to get the Bill passed. Mr Leslie said it was irrelevant whether the post was called Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs or Lord Chancellor. He said: "What matters most is...whether it is reformed so that the post holder no longer has those conflicting duties. "It
The UK has welcomed the decision by India and Pakistan to open a bus link across the ceasefire line dividing the disputed region of Kashmir. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, touring South East Asian countries, praised the "spirit of cooperation" in achieving the breakthrough. Media reports in both countries describe the deal as a major step in the ongoing peace process. Mr Straw said he hoped the agreement would make a difference to Kashmiris. The bus service was one of several announcements made after a meeting of foreign ministers of both countries in Islamabad on Wednesday. Kashmiri politicians on both sides of the Line of Control which divides the region welcomed the move. In a statement, Mr Straw said the bus service between Srinagar and Muzaffarabad "will be able to reunite families that have been divided for decades". "This will make a real difference to the lives of Kashmiris on both sides of the Line of Control," he said. "I warmly applaud the efforts of both India and Pakistan to make this happen. "This spirit of cooperation will, I hope, lead to many more measures that will benefit all in the region." On Thursday Mr Straw was in India visiting Sikhism's holiest shrine, the Golden Temple in Amritsar where he tried his hand at making Indian bread or roti. He is due to take part in talks with the Indian government on Friday. A second bus service linking the Pakistani city of Lahore with Amritsar in India was also announced as
A Conservative MP and former minister has defected to Labour. Robert Jackson, 58, MP for Wantage in Oxfordshire, said he was disillusioned with the party's leadership and its "dangerous" views on Europe. Prime Minister Tony Blair declared himself "delighted", saying Mr Jackson would be warmly welcomed by Labour MPs. Mr Jackson, who has clashed with his leaders over tuition fees and Europe in the past, served as higher education minister between 1987 and 1990. In a letter to his constituency chairman he wrote: "It is in the country's best interest that Tony Blair rather than Michael Howard should form the next government." While saying he admired Mr Blair's "courageous" leadership of the country, he bitterly criticised the Conservatives stance on Europe. "The Conservative Party's hostility to Europe has now hardened to the point at which it advocates the unilateral denunciation of Britain's treaty obligations," he wrote. Mr Blair said Mr Jackson was a "decent, fair-minded and dedicated public servant... who will be warmly welcome by Labour MPs and members". "As he rightly says, [the Conservatives] have learned nothing from their two election defeats and are, if anything, drifting further rightwards," he added. A spokesman for Michael Howard said Mr Jackson's views on policy issues were "very different" from those of the party leadership. "He believes students should pay tuition fees, that Tony Blair should not be criticised over his handling of the Iraq war and that more powers should be given to Europe," the spokesman said. He added that it
Tony Blair has had the chance to tackle the problems facing Britain and has failed, Michael Howard has said. "Britain is heading in the wrong direction", the Conservative leader said in his New Year message. Mr Blair's government was a "bossy, interfering government that takes decisions that should be made by individuals," he added. But Labour's campaign spokesman Fraser Kemp responded: "Britain is working, don't let the Tories wreck it again". Mr Howard also paid tribute to the nation's character for its generous response to the Asian quake disaster. The catastrophe was overshadowing the hopes for the future at this usually positive time of the year, Mr Howard said. "We watched the scenes of destruction with a sense of disbelief. The scale, the speed, the ferocity of what happened on Boxing Day is difficult to grasp. "Yet Britain's response has shone a light on our nation's character. The last week has shown that the warm, caring heart of Britain beats as strong as ever." He went on to reflect on the values that "most Britons hold dear". Looking ahead to the coming general election, he pledged to "turn these beliefs into reality" and set out the choices he says are facing Britain. "How much tax do people want to pay? Who will give taxpayers value for money, the clean hospitals and good, disciplined schools they want? "Who can be trusted to get a grip on the disorder on our streets and the chaos in our immigration system?" Mr Blair has
The EU embargo on arms exports to China is likely to be lifted in the next six months despite US objections, UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has said. The 15-year-old ban was imposed in the aftermath of China's crackdown on protesters in Tiananmen Square. Mr Straw told a Commons select committee human rights concerns over China remained. But he said it was wrong to put China under the same embargo as countries such as Zimbabwe and Burma. In December, the EU pledged to work towards lifting the ban but said it was not ready to do so yet. The EU's move was welcomed at the time by Beijing, which described the embargo as a "product of the Cold War". German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and French President Jacques Chirac have repeatedly called for the embargo to be lifted. Britain has been more cautious on the issue, but on Wednesday Mr Straw said he also wanted it to end. "I have long understood China's argument, that to lump them in with, say, Burma and Zimbabwe is not appropriate and I don't think it is," he told the joint committee on Strategic Export Controls. He said "it is more likely than not" that the ban would be lifted before Britain takes over the presidency of the EU from Luxembourg in July. But he said an EU code of conduct would prevent an increase in the number of arms being exported to the country. "If it is lifted we will end up with as
Tory leader Michael Howard has dismissed claims that his immigration policy was "moving onto the turf" of the British National Party (BNP). BNP leader Nick Griffin told the Independent he expected some BNP voters to switch to the Tories over the issue. But Mr Howard said he rejected the idea that the Tories and BNP appealed to the same voting instincts. Asked if he would welcome BNP voters he told the BBC: "I don't want anybody to vote for these extremist parties". He added, on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "If you want good community relations in this country...then you have to have firm, fair immigration controls." The Tories have promised an upper limit on the number of people allowed into Britain with the slogan: "It's not racist to impose limits on immigration". All parties are stepping up campaiging in the run-up to the general election, widely expected to be called for 5 May. Labour has unveiled its own "points system" for ensuring migrants who want to work in the UK have skills that are required, but have rejected immigration quotas. The Liberal Democrats have warned both parties against "pandering to prejudice". Mr Griffin told the Independent the Tories' plans were "a definite move onto our turf". He said: "I quite freely accept that on a nationwide basis, the Tories will con enough people to make a significant hole in our vote." Asked whether he was comfortable with the perception that the Conservatives and the BNP appeal to the same
An inquiry is under way after files containing security details about the Pakistani president's visit to London were found by a member of the public. The files are believed to contain detailed security arrangements for Gen Pervez Musharraf's visit this week, including police codes. Scotland Yard said the policing operation had been reviewed. A spokesman said President Musharraf's safety had not been compromised, as the papers had been handed in promptly. "We cannot discuss who was responsible for the documents, only that they contained the policing arrangements for the official visit," said the spokesman. The papers are believed to have been found by a member of the public in a street in Mayfair and given to the Mirror newspaper. The police spokesman said the newspaper handed the report over on Monday. The force's Directorate of Professional Standards is investigating the circumstances surrounding the loss of the documents, he said. Gen Musharraf held talks with Tony Blair on Monday. He arrived in Britain on Sunday night after flying from the United States, where he met President George W Bush. He is due to visit the Pakistani community in Manchester on Tuesday afternoon.
Science Minister Lord Sainsbury has made a £2m donation to the Labour Party for its General Election fund. It is the latest hefty donation to the party by the billionaire - he has contributed more than £10m since 1999. David Sainsbury said he was pleased to give cash to a party that had the "vision" to deliver economic prosperity and better public services for Britain. General Secretary Matt Carter said it was "a fantastic gift" that would help Labour "fight and win the election". "Through the generosity of David Sainsbury and other Labour supporters, Labour will be campaigning hard to take Britain forward and to stop the Tories taking us back," Mr Carter said. Lord Sainsbury added: "I am pleased to be able to make this contribution to the general election funds of the Labour Party because I believe that they are the only party that has the vision to deliver both economic prosperity and better public services for Britain." The 64-year-old latest donation follows a £2.5m gift to the party in 2003. Lord Sainsbury was created a life peer in 1997, a year before he was appointed as minister for science.
Broadcasters should fix a date for a pre-election televised debate between the three main political leaders, according to the Hansard Society. It would then be up to Tony Blair, Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy to decide whether to take part, the non-partisan charity said. Chairman Lord Holme argued that prime ministers should not have the right of veto on a matter "of public interest". "The broadcasters should make the decision to go ahead," he said. Lord Holme's proposal for a televised debate comes just four months after millions of viewers were able to watch US President George W Bush slug it out verbally with his Democratic challenger John Kerry. He said it was a "democratically dubious proposition" that it was up to the incumbent prime minister to decide whether a similar event takes place here. If Mr Blair did not want to take part, the broadcasters could go ahead with an empty chair or cancel the event and explain their reasons why, Lord Holme said. "What makes the present situation even less acceptable is that although Mr Howard and Mr Kennedy have said they would welcome a debate, no-one has heard directly from the prime minister," he said. "It has been left to nudges and winks, hints and briefings from his aides and campaign managers to imply that Mr Blair doesn't want one, but we haven't heard from the prime minister himself." Lord Holme, who has campaigned for televised debates at previous elections, said broadcasters were "more than willing to
People in England, Scotland and Wales must have registered by 1700 GMT to be able to vote in the general election if it is held, as expected, on 5 May. Those who filled in forms last autumn should already be on the register - but those who have moved house or were on holiday may have been left off. There will also be elections for local councils and mayors in parts of England on 5 May. The deadline for voters to register in Northern Ireland expired on Thursday. Completed registration forms can be handed into local authorities throughout the day on Friday, and some will accept them by fax. As well as for English county councils, polls for unitary authorities at Bristol, Isle of Wight and Stockton-on-Tees and mayors at Doncaster, Hartlepool, North Tyneside and Stoke-on-Trent are also scheduled for 5 May. Last week Preston City Council reported that more than 14,000 of its voters were not registered. Its electoral roll fell by 17.5% in a year - the biggest dip in the UK. An Electoral Commission spokeswoman said: "Political decisions are made on your behalf every day but only by using your right to vote at an election can you really have a say on the issues you care about. "If you want your voice to be heard on 5 May you will need to have registered by Friday 11 March." Council tax payers are not eligible to vote without registration, officials have stressed.
A national body designed to tackle skills shortages in key subjects should be set up, a committee of MPs has said. There was an "absolute crisis" in the recruitment of statisticians and other social science experts, the Commons science and technology committee added. "Major problems" are expected over the next 10 years as the social science workforce continues to age, it said. The committee was reporting on the work, strategy and spending plans of the Economic Social Research Council. The council aims to promote and support strategic research for social science postgraduates and provide social scientists to meet the needs of the country. It also liaises with the government and industry over their social science needs. In its report on the council's work the committee said: "We are deeply concerned by the skills shortages afflicting, in particular, the qualitative branches of social sciences. This mirrored previous concerns the committee had expressed on shortages in the fields of maths and chemistry, it said. "It is hard to see how significant progress towards rectifying these shortages can be made through the deployment of Economic and Social Research Council's limited resources. "If the government is serious about addressing skills shortages in key subjects it needs to find a more effective mechanism to achieve this." A national "strategic capabilities fund" to address shortages in key areas should be set up in response, the committee added.
Middlesbrough mayor Ray Mallon has been drafted in to boost the Yes campaign as the North East assembly referendum enters its final week. The former police chief, dubbed Robocop for his zero tolerance style, clashed on Thursday with Sunderland No campaigner Neil Herron. Mr Mallon said an assembly would give local people more of a say over key issues such as transport and crime. But Mr Herron said North East people did not want or need an assembly. The pair met on the platform at Sunderland station as Mr Mallon toured the region highlighting claimed improvements to transport if the area gets an assembly. But Mr Herron - who gained fame as one of Sunderland's "metric martyrs" and is running his own No campaign alongside the official North East Says No campaign - said he was not convinced by Mr Mallon's arguments. "The reality is that it is not going to deliver," he said. "Labour has had two-and-a-half years to convince people of this. If you can't sell a deal in that time, it is a bad deal." On Wednesday, Mr Mallon provoked fury by branding the official No Campaign "two-bit Tories" in a confrontation outside its Durham headquarters. "The campaign is being run by two-bit Conservatives who are not interested in what happens in the North East; they are interested in hitting the Labour party over the head," he said. Mr Mallon is a late recruit to the Yes campaign after rejecting overtures from No campaigners including, he claims,
A judge should look into the David Blunkett controversy as key questions remain unanswered, the Lib Dems say. Sir Alan Budd's inquiry linked the ex-home secretary to the speeding up of a visa claim by his ex-lover's nanny. But he could not say whether Mr Blunkett had treated the nanny as a special case or had used her as an example of immigration problems. Lib Dem spokesman Mark Oaten said the number of officials who had forgotten what happened was worrying. He told BBC News: "I'm extremely concerned that 20 individuals appear to have forgotten what happened or more suspiciously are not prepared to say what happened. "That must be bad for government, it must be bad for public confidence in the system." Mr Oaten said people would be mystified why Sir Alan's inquiry failed to uncover why processing of the visa application was speeded up. He said: "There is a strong case for a judge-led judicial review of this because, of course, next time it happens it may not be about a nanny and their visa. It may be about something even more important than that. "So we do need to understand what took place and who was involved." The Tories criticised the Lib Dem stance, saying Mr Oaten had initially said he accepted Mr Blunkett's word unless further evidence emerged. But Lib Dem officials say Mr Oaten was speaking when an inquiry was under way and was avoiding rushing to judgement.
The shape of the UK's economy In graphics But he denied that he was ruling out British membership of the euro despite saying there would be no assessment of the five economic tests this year. Mr Brown said that it was vital the UK continued to invest in infrastructure, science, and education in the future. Otherwise it would be overtaken by the likes of China, he told MPs. The chancellor said that the EU's planned changes in the growth and stability pact - designed to ensure that countries in the euro zone do not borrow too much - would force Britain to run a budget surplus of 1% over the economic cycle. Under Mr Brown's rules, the UK current budget must be in balance over the economic cycle, but public investment is not counted as part of that deficit. He told the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee that the EU rules "make it difficult for a low debt country to run the investment programmes that are necessary to improve its infrastructure". But he argued that the EU was moving in the direction of the UK principles, and would eventually recognise the need to consider budget deficits over a longer period than one year, to include investment, and to take more account of the total size of government debt as well as the balance each year. Under Mr Brown's "sustainable investment" rule, government debt should be under 40% - in contrast to the 60% allowed under the growth and stability
Ministers have been asked to explain how Budget details were printed in a London newspaper half an hour before Gordon Brown made his speech. The Tories said a large chunk of the Budget appeared to have been leaked in what they describe as a "serious breach of Treasury confidentiality". The Lib Dems called for Commons leader Peter Hain to make a statement and said chancellors had resigned over leaks. They were told it would be brought to Speaker Michael Martin's attention. In the Commons, Tory frontbencher Andrew Tyrie MP demanded an immediate ministerial statement about how measures had been "clearly, or at least apparently, leaked to the Evening Standard". Raising a point of order, he said it was "the latest in a long line of discourtesies to this House", as well as a breach of confidentiality. He said: "I can only hope it is unintentional. If it were planned it would be a very grave matter indeed. A previous Labour chancellor resigned after he leaked the Budget." Hugh Dalton resigned after leaking details of his 1947 budget to journalist John Carvel, who published them in a London newspaper, just minutes before they were announced to the House of Commons. Liberal Democrat David Laws said it was a "very serious matter" and said Mr Hain should make a statement on Thursday. Deputy Speaker Sylvia Heal agreed it was "of concern" but said nothing could be done immediately but the issue would be brought to Mr Martin's attention.
A deal bringing Turkey a step closer to EU membership is of "fundamental importance" to the peace and security of the world, Tony Blair has said. The deal, struck at the European Council last week, also proved claims of a clash between Muslims and Christians were "wrong", Mr Blair said. It represented the achievement of an "historic British objective", he added. Tory leader Michael Howard said the deal laid to rest any suggestion the EU was "anti-Islamic". Turkey's involvement with the EU would provide an "invaluable bridge" between Europe and the rest of the world, Mr Howard added. But the Tory leader argued that the EU constitution was not designed to take in a country as large as Turkey. Mr Blair has been a leading advocate of Turkish membership despite controversy surrounding the idea. He insisted that the Turkish leadership had made great advances in improving its human rights records. The deal to open formal talks with Ankara came despite an EU demand for Turkey to recognise Cyprus. It was agreed the issue can be tackled at a later date but Turkish premier Recep Erdogan had to accept negotiations did not guarantee his country full EU membership. The internationally recognised southern part of Cyprus is an EU member, but Turkey, which occupies northern Cyprus, had previously insisted it would not bow to demands to recognise the country, calling the issue a "red line". It could take up to 15 years before Turkey is able to join, and entry cannot be
Record numbers of schools across the UK are to take part in a mock general election backed by the government. Some 600 schools have already signed up for the Y Vote Mock Elections 2005 run by the Hansard Society and aimed at boosting interest in politics. Pupils in the schools taking part will learn the skills of speech writers, canvassers and political candidates. Schools Minister Stephen Twigg said engaging young people's interest was "essential" to the future of democracy. He added: said "Young people who are engaged and motivated by the political process are essential to the future health of our democracy. "The mock elections initiative provides an opportunity for pupils to develop their own understanding of how the democratic process works and why it matters. "By experiencing the election process first hand - from running a campaign to the declaration of the final result - we hope that young people will develop the enthusiasm to take part in the future." The Hansard Society, the Electoral Commission and the Department for Education and Skills are running the programme. Pupils will stand as party candidates, speech writers and canvassers. Michael Raftery, project manager at the Hansard Society, said: "The Y Vote Mock Elections for schools mirror the excitement and buzz of a real election, raising awareness of citizenship, and the benefits of active democracy." The mock votes will take place around 5 May, widely expected to be the date of the general election. Information packs, including ballot papers and manifesto guides,
Michael Howard's ex-model wife, Sandra, is to play a leading role in the Conservative election campaign. Mrs Howard will make solo visits to target seats as well as accompanying her husband on his helicopter campaign trail criss-crossing the country. Mr Howard will host a news conference at the party's London HQ every morning, Tory co-chairman Liam Fox said. "We want Michael to be as accessible as possible," Mr Fox said, adding that the party was not afraid of scrutiny. The Tory leader wanted to meet as many ordinary members of the public, Mr Fox said. Tony Blair has also said he is intending to get out and talk to as many people as possible during the election campaign. But Labour campaign chiefs say there are no plans for Mr Blair to hold a daily news conference. Mr Fox responded by accusing the prime minister of "hiding away from the scrutiny of London's media". The Liberal Democrats also say they are planning to hold daily news conferences with Charles Kennedy. On Mrs Howard's role, Mr Fox said: "Sandra has already been campaigning with Michael on a number of visits and has been undertaking short visits herself. "That pattern will continue. It's worked very well up until now." Mrs Howard made her debut speech at the Conservative Party Conference in Bournemouth last October. She used her speech on the fringe to highlight the work of a drugs charity, Addaction, which she supports. Mrs Howard has also appeared along side her husband on
Children would be offered two hours' free sports training a week by a future Tory government, the party has said. The Club2School policy would provide up to £250m yearly for local sports clubs in the UK to deliver after-school sport. The extra coaching would be funded by the National Lottery and would come on top of the two hours of sport a week children are supposed to get in school. Shadow home secretary David Davis said five million children were being denied adequate sporting opportunities. The plans would help tackle the "fastest growing rate of obesity in the developed world", he said. Shadow sports minister Lord Moynihan said the policy would empower local clubs and create a lasting legacy. "We aim to shift the emphasis on after-school sport provision away from our overstretched teachers and schools directly in to the 151,000 sports clubs in the UK." The Tories say Labour's plans to give all children two hours of sports lessons a week in schools have failed. Government figures show that in England in 2002 only a third of schools at Key Stages 1, 3 and 4 and two-fifths of schools at Key Stage 2, met that target. The Tories also claim that of the £750m the prime minister pledged in 2000 to invest on school sports facilities, only £41m had been spent. But the Big Lottery Fund has said that complex capital projects are involved - and it was confident the money would all be allocated by next year as
The Conservatives have been "a lot smarter" in the way they have conducted the general election campaign, a Labour backbencher has said. Derek Wyatt said having a five month campaign "turned off voters" and suggested people were already "rather bored of the thing". He wants a greater campaigning role for Chancellor Gordon Brown. Labour said the economy was at the heart of the campaign and Mr Brown therefore had a prominent role. But Mr Wyatt argued: "By some way, he is currently the figure in all of the polls that people trust and see that has delivered over eight years an economy unmatched anywhere in the world. "So, it would be a tad foolish of the Labour Party if we did not use him as we have done over the past three elections." Labour's election chief Alan Milburn denied there was an attempt to sideline Mr Brown after facing criticism for letting the Tories set the agenda. However, Mr Wyatt predicted the campaign would get under way properly once the chancellor delivered his budget. The MP for Sittingbourne and Sheppey said Prime Minister Tony Blair had been "trying very hard" to improve his own standing with the electorate through a "sort of campaign of trust". But Mr Blair had been "hurt" by the Iraq controversy, he added. A Labour party spokesman played down differences with Mr Wyatt and said Mr Brown already had a prominent campaign role. "This election is a choice between Labour taking Britain forward and the Conservatives
Gordon Brown has called on rich nations to fund a £5.5bn ($10bn) plan to fight the Aids epidemic and find a vaccine. On the fourth day of his six-day tour of Africa, the UK chancellor predicted a vaccine could be found by 2012 if the world stepped up its funding pledges. Doubling the £400m being spent yearly on finding such a vaccine could advance it by three years and save six million lives, Mr Brown said on Thursday. He hopes to use the UK's G8 presidency to push the issue forward. "I believe that the generation that provided the finance to combat, cure and eradicate the world's deadliest disease of today - and today the world's least curable disease - HIV/Aids - will rightly earn the title 'the great generation'," Mr Brown said in a speech during his African tour. The problems of HIV/Aids were inseparable from poverty, he added. "At least $10 billion per annum (£5.5bn) is needed to address the HIV/Aids crisis in low and middle income countries. "Existing financial commitments on their own will not stop the pandemic. "The UK's proposal for an International Finance Facility is so important - increasing world aid flows by over $50 billion (£27bn). A doubling of world aid to halve world poverty." Mr Brown also said he had agreed with the Italian finance minister Domenico Siniscalco to push forward with plans for the world-wide sharing and co-ordination of research into the disease. Currently the private sector was only spending £60m a
Chancellor Gordon Brown has announced a freeze on fuel duty in his pre-budget speech to the Commons on Thursday. Mr Brown told the House that government policy is to raise fuel duty at least in line with inflation each year to fulfil environmental commitments. But this financial year, because of "volatility in the oil market", he said the duty would be frozen. During 2000 many motorists campaigned against the rises but environmentalists believe less duty means more pollution. He said: "It is our policy that each year fuel duties should rise at least in line with inflation as we seek to meet our targets for reducing polluting emmissions and fund our public services. "But this financial year because of the sustained volatility in the oil market I propose to match the freeze in car vehicle licence duty with a continuation on the freeze on the main road fuel duties." The RAC welcomed the news, calling it an "early Christmas present" for motorists. But the organisation urged drivers to continue to shop around to get the best price for petrol. Environmental group Transport 2000 said the freeze sends the wrong message to motorists. "We are concerned that although Britain leads the world in rhetoric about climate change it often fails in practical action," said a spokesman. In 2000 the People's Fuel Lobby caused chaos by blocking roads with slow-moving convoys after Mr Brown threatened to raise fuel taxes. The chancellor did not raise duty that year, but despite threats of more
The events leading to David Blunkett's resignation must not "swept under the carpet", the Tories have warned. On Wednesday Tony Blair said he hoped the former home secretary would serve again in government in the future. Mr Blunkett quit in December after a probe linked him to the visa application of his ex-lover's nanny. Mr Blair said he left "without a stain on his character" but Tory Dominic Grieve branded the way Mr Blunkett's office operated as "scandalous". Mr Blair told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I know David very well and I believe him to be a man of real integrity and real ability and I was very sad for him as to what happened." He said Mr Blunkett still had an immense amount to offer the country but he was not making any "guarantees or definitive statements" about future jobs. But shadow attorney general Mr Grieve said: "While I don't rule out the possibility that Mr Blunkett may return as a minister, I don't think it's something that can simply be brushed under the carpet." Senior Labour backbencher Martin O'Neill, who chairs the Commons trade committee, said he believed the prime minister would want one of his "praetorian guard" - a reference to the elite body guard of Roman emperors - back alongside him. But colleague Ian Gibson, who chairs the science and technology committee, said there was a "question mark" as to whether Mr Blunkett could serve at cabinet level again.
The initial attempt to sell the Millennium Dome failed due to a catalogue of errors, a report by the government's finance watchdog says. The report said too many parties were involved in decision-making when the attraction first went on sale after the Millennium exhibition ended. The National Audit Office said the Dome cost taxpayers £28.7m to maintain and sell in the four years after it closed. Finally, a deal to turn it into a sport and entertainment venue was struck. More than £550m could now be returned to the public sector in the wake of the deal to regenerate the site in Greenwich, London. The NAO report said that this sale went through because it avoided many of the problems of the previous attempt to sell the Dome. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said a good deal had been secured. "Delivery of the many benefits secured through this deal will continue the substantial progress already made at the Millennium Village and elsewhere on the peninsula," he said. But Edward Leigh, who is chairman of the Commons public accounts committee, warned the government would have to work hard to ensure taxpayers would get full benefit from the Dome deal. He said: "This report also shows that the first attempt to sell the Dome proved a complete fiasco. Every arm of government seems to have had a finger in the pie. The process was confused and muddled." He added: "Four years after the Millennium Exhibition closed, the Government finally has a deal
Hunts in England and Wales have begun on the last day that hunting with dogs is legal, with more due out later. Thousands of supporters are expected to turn out at more than 250 meets, many of which have altered their normal schedules to be out on a Thursday. The ban on hunting with dogs comes into effect from 0001 GMT on Friday. The Countryside Alliance had its latest legal bid to block the ban thwarted on Wednesday when the Appeal Court ruled the Hunting Act was lawful. But the group says hunting will continue in some form after the ban comes in, with hunts expected to test the new law to its limits. Others are expected to defy the ban by continuing to hunt illegally. Anti-hunt organisations, for whom the ban is the culmination of years of campaigning, say they hope most will stay within the law. Mike Hobday, of the League Against Cruel Sports, told BBC News: "We've long urged them to go drag hunting - to follow an artificial scent - and that is what we hope they do. "But if they continue to chase foxes, to chase wild mammals around the countryside, that's against the law and we're confident they'll be brought to justice." At the headquarters of Quorn hunt in Leicestershire, feelings were running high as hunt enthusiasts prepared for their final legal hunt. BBC correspondent Sarah Mukherjee said hunt supporters were in tears. She said many people did not share the Countryside Alliance's optimism
Yahoo has reached the grand old age of 10 and, in internet years, that is a long time. For many, Yahoo remains synonymous with the internet - a veteran that managed to ride the dot-com wave and the subsequent crash and maintain itself as one of the web's top brands. But for others there is another, newer net icon threatening to overshadow Yahoo in the post dot-com world - Google. The veteran and the upstart have plenty in common - Yahoo was the first internet firm to offer initial public shares and Google was arguably the most watched IPO (Initial Public Offering) of the post-dot-com era. Both began life as search engines although in 2000, when Yahoo chose Google to power its search facility while it concentrated on its web portal business, it was very much Yahoo that commanded press attention. In recent years, the column inches have stacked up in Google's favour as the search engine also diversifies with the launch of services such as Gmail, its shopping channel Froogle and Google News. For Jupiter analyst Olivier Beauvillain, Yahoo's initial decision to put its investment on search on hold was an error. "Yahoo was busy building a portal and while it was good to diversify they made a big mistake in outsourcing search to Google," he said "They thought Google would just be a technology provider but it has become a portal in its own right and a direct competitor," he added. He believes Yahoo failed to see how
The Football Association will take no action against Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho following his sending-off in Sunday's Carling Cup final. Mourinho, who was sent from the touchline for appearing to taunt Liverpool fans, has been "reminded of his responsibilities to the game". But the FA confirmed: "There will be no further action taken in this matter." Mourinho claimed his 'silence' gesture was aimed at the media, although they were on the other side of the ground. The former Porto coach was forced to watch the climax of his side's 3-2 victory over Liverpool on television after being ushered away from the touchline by fourth official Phil Crossley. His gesture came after Chelsea's equaliser on 79 minutes courtesy of a Steven Gerrard own goal. Mourinho still faces an FA investigation into his allegation that Manchester United's players 'cheated' during January's Carling Cup semi-final at Stamford Bridge. And Uefa could also launch disciplinary action following Mourinho's failure to attend a compulsory post-match press conference after Chelsea's Champions League defeat at Barcelona last week. In addition, some time this month, Chelsea must also answer a charge of failing to control their players during the Premiership win at Blackburn in February. And a charge of failing to control their supporters following a Carling Cup meeting with West Ham earlier this season is still to be heard. The Premier League is also continuing investigations into allegations Chelsea officials tapped up Arsenal defender Ashley Cole in January.
Michael Owen revelled in his return to the to the Real Madrid starting line-up and inspired a 3-1 win over Real Betis on Wednesday by scoring the first goal. He said: "I am happy I could play a game from the start again. "I felt good all though the game and it is obvious that I am happy to have scored another goal. "People have talked a lot about my performances and I think I have had some months that were not so good and others that were very good." Owen, starting his third successive La Liga match, converted a low cross from Santiago Solari. Robert Carlos made it 2-0 at the break, smashing home an indirect free-kick. Midfielder Edu reduced the deficit after half-time but Ivan Helguera headed past keeper Antonio Doblas to seal victory for his team. Victory took Real to within six points of leaders Barcelona and Owen is confident Real can close the gap. He added: "We had several chances against Betis and I think we can get back in touch with Barcelona. "It is only six points between Barcelona and us and that is nothing. If we can beat them at the Bernabeu (on 10 April), then it will be just three." Owen has scored nine league goals, one behind Real's top scorer Ronaldo. Real had lost their previous two league games.
Gaming on the move is one of the fastest-growing activities among the tech-savvy in India, says a report. The Indian mobile gaming market is expected to generate about $26m (£13.8m) by the end of 2004, according to market analysts In-Stat/MDR. In October, mobile phone users grew by 1.4 million to 44.9 million, overtaking the number of landlines, said the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. Analysts say cheap rates and a huge youth market is driving the market. India has a large population of under-25s, and many in urban areas are fast adopting mobiles as must-have gadgets. India's mobile gaming market will bring in about $336m (£178m) by 2009, according to the report. Mobile gaming is expected to explode globally over the next few years. Analysts predict that 220 million people will be playing games on phones by 2009, generating billions for mobile companies. Services other than just voice calls which are offered by mobile operators in India have, as a result of the huge rise in subscribers, grown significantly and rapidly. "The growth of this market sector has attracted publishers, developers, animators, musicians, and content providers, and is also stimulating the development of innovative business models," said Clint Wheelock, director of In-Stat/MDR's wireless research group. "Mobile gaming is not just about fun; it also represents one key element of a rich mobile entertainment experience for consumers, and a lucrative market opportunity for industry players." Currently, India has six big games developers and four mobile operators that offer games to their
Adriano's agent Gilmar Rinaldi has insisted that he has had no contact with Chelsea over the striker. Chelsea were reported to have made inquiries about Inter Milan's 22-year-old Brazilian star. Rinaldi told BBC Sport from Rio de Janeiro: "I can assure you that Chelsea have had no dealings whatsoever with either me or Adriano. "Parma and Real Madrid are interested but there's nothing new there. Their interest has been known for some time." Adriano has scored 14 goals in 20 Serie A appearances this season. And Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho had claimed that he was in Milan talking to Adriano on the day he is alleged to have held a clandestine meeting with Arsenal defender Ashley Cole. Mourinho said he was "just practising my Portuguese with him because I don't need strikers". Rinaldi told BBC Sport: "I have to say that nobody from Chelsea or any other London club has contacted me. "If they want to, that's fine. I can tell them what the situation is. "If Chelsea are interested then they must make an offer." Inter are reported to have slapped a price tag in the region of £40m on the head of Adriano, who joined them just over a year ago from Parma. Real Madrid view him as a natural replacement for compatriot Ronaldo. But Rinaldi said: "I cannot give you a price that Inter would accept for Adriano. That's something that would have to be negotiated between the interested clubs."
Jason Gardener says being made an MBE in the New Year Honours List underlines the achievement of Great Britain's 4x100m relay squad at the Olympics. Gardener, Darren Campbell, Marlon Devonish and Mark Lewis-Francis have all been awarded MBEs after beating pre-race favourites USA to gold. "I think this award reinforces what we did on that fantastic night," he said. "This recognition is really inspiring and makes me want to have more success," said Lewis-Francis. The British sprint quartet produced a string of faultless baton changes in the final to put pressure on the Americans. And when the USA stumbled with a poor switch between Justin Gatlin and Coby Miller at the 300m stage, Britain edged ahead going into the final bend. Then, on cue, Lewis-Francis ran a textbook final leg, holding off Maurice Greene to bring Team GB home in 38.07 seconds - just one hundredth of a second ahead of their rivals. "Winning the gold medal was the highlight of my athletics career so far," said the Birchfield Harrier. "This award is not just for me, but for all my friends, family and the people who have helped me to get to this level in my sport." Gardener added: "All of us had worked very hard for a long, long time to carry off what most believed was an impossible task. "Of course this award is very special, but for me nothing will ever take away winning an Olympic gold medal. It's all I ever wanted. "All my life
Actor Christian Slater is stepping into the role of Tom in the Broadway revival of The Glass Menagerie. Slater, 35, is replacing actor Dallas Roberts in the Tennessee Williams drama, which opens next month. No reason was given for Roberts' departure. The role will be played by understudy Joey Collins until Slater joins the show. Slater won rave reviews for his recent performance in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in London's West End. He has also starred in a number of films, including Heathers, Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves and more recently Churchill: The Hollywood Years. Preview performances of The Glass Menagerie will begin at New York's Ethel Barrymore Theatre on Thursday. Philip Rinaldi, a spokesman for the show, said the play's 15 March opening date remains unchanged. The revival, directed by David Leveaux, will also star Jessica Lange as the domineering mother, Amanda Wingfield.
The battle for control of Manchester United has taken another turn after the club confirmed it had received a fresh takeover approach from US business tycoon Malcolm Glazer. No formal offer has been made yet, but Manchester United have confirmed they have received a "detailed proposal" from the US entrepreneur which could lead to a bid. Reports have put the offer at 300p per share, which would value Manchester United at about £800m ($1.5bn). The approach by the 76-year-old owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers American football team is reportedly being led by his two sons, Avi and Joel. A previous approach to the United board by Mr Glazer in October last year was turned down. However, the BBC has learnt that the club is unlikely to reject the latest plan out of hand. Mr Glazer's previous offer involved borrowing large amounts of money to finance any takeover. That would have left the club with debt levels which were deemed "not... in the best interests of the company" by Manchester United's board when they rejected his approach last year. However, Mr Glazer's latest offer is reported to have cut the amount of borrowing needed by £200m. While United's board may be casting a serious eye over Mr Glazer's latest proposals, supporters remain fiercely opposed to any deal. Supporters' group Shareholders United - which has proved adept in rallying opposition to Mr Glazer's campaign - said it would fight any move. "Manchester United are a debt-free company. We don't want to
The warm reception that has greeted Star Wars: Battlefront is a reflection not of any ingenious innovation in its gameplay, but of its back-to-basics approach and immense nostalgia quotient. Geared towards online gamers, it is based around little more than a series of all-out gunfights, set in an array of locations all featured in, or hinted at during, the two blockbusting film trilogies. Previous Star Wars titles like the acclaimed Knights Of The Old Republic and Jedi Knight have regularly impressed with their imaginative forays into the far corners of the franchise's extensive universe, and their use of weird and wonderful new characters. Battlefront on the other hand wholeheartedly revisits the most recognisable elements of the hit movies themselves. The sights, sounds and protagonists on show here will all be instantly familiar to fans, who may well feel that the opportunity to relive Star Wars' most memorable screen skirmishes makes this the game they have always waited for. The mayhem can be viewed from either a third or first-person perspective, and you can either fight for the forces of freedom or join Darth Vader on the Dark Side, depending on the episode and type of campaign as well as the player's personal propensity for good or evil. There is ample chance to be a Wookie, shoot Ewoks and rush into battle alongside a fired-up Luke Skywalker. In each section, the task is simply to wipe out enemy troops, seize strategic waypoints and move on to the next planet. It really
Microsoft has entered the desktop search fray, releasing a test version of its tool to find documents, e-mails and other files on a PC hard drive. The beta program only works on PCs running Windows XP or Windows 2000. The desktop search market is becoming increasingly crowded with firms touting programs that help people find files. Search giant Google launched its desktop search tool in October, while Yahoo is planning to release similar software in January. "Our ambition for search is to provide the ultimate information tool that can find anything you're looking for," said Yusuf Mehdi, corporate vice president at Microsoft's MSN internet division. Microsoft's program can be used as a toolbar on the Windows desktop, the Internet Explorer browser and within the Outlook e-mail program. The software giant is coming late to the desktop search arena, competing with a large number of rivals. Google has already released a desktop tool. Yahoo is planning to get into the game in January and AOL is expected to offer desktop searching early next year. Small firms such as Blinkx, Copernic, Enfish X1 Technologies and X-Friend offer tools that catalogue the huge amounts of information that people increasingly store on their desktop or home computer. Apple will release a similar search system for its computers called Spotlight that is due to be released with the Tiger operating system.
Tony Blair has met Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder to talk about Turkey entering the EU. The Downing Street talks covered a range of other topics ahead of an EU summit in Brussels later in the week. Mr Blair is an enthusiastic proponent of talks to bring Turkey within the recently-expanded EU. Italy and Germany also favour an early start to talks, but there is scepticism in France and elsewhere. Some are worried that Turkey's large and rapidly growing population and low average income might make integration into the EU difficult. Some are concerned that a change of government could lead to Turkey reneging on key human rights reforms it has recently enacted. And many in France would prefer Turkey to admit that World War I-era killing of Armenians constituted genocide. There are also issues in France and the Netherlands over the possible problems of integrating the first major Muslim nation into the EU. But Mr Blair and the Labour government have been the staunchest backers of Turkish accession, provided it sticks with human rights and economic reform. Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "The prime minister has regular meetings with both of them and particularly in advance of European Councils. "The key issue at this week's council will be that of Turkey, but they will also discuss a range of other matters."
Asian governments and international agencies are reeling at the potential economic devastation left by the Asian tsunami and floods. World Bank president James Wolfensohn has said his agency is "only beginning to grasp the magnitude of the disaster" and its economic impact. The tragedy has left at least 25,000 people dead, with Sri Lanka, Thailand, India and Indonesia worst hit. Some early estimates of reconstruction costs are starting to emerge. Millions have been left homeless, while businesses and infrastructure have been washed away. Economists believe several of the 10 countries hit by the giant waves could see a slowdown in growth. In Sri Lanka, some observers have said that as much as 1% of annual growth may be lost. For Thailand, that figure is much lower at 0.1%. Governments are expected to take steps, such as cutting taxes and increasing spending, to facilitate a recovery. "With the enormous displacement of people...there will be a serious relaxation of fiscal policy," Glenn Maguire, chief economist for the region at Societe Generale, told Agence France Presse. "The economic impact of it will certainly be large, but it should not be enough to derail the momentum of the region in 2005," he said. "First and foremost this is a human tragedy." India's economy, however, is less likely to slow because the areas hit are some of the least developed. The regional giant has enjoyed strong growth in 2004. But India now faces other problems, with aid workers under pressure to ensure a clean supply
Jennifer Capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the Australian Open because of injury. The organisers of the first grand slam of 2005, which begins on 17 January, said the American has a problem with her right shoulder. It comes as a blow to the women's draw as last year's champion, Justin Henin-Hardenne, and runner-up, Kim Clijsters, will also be absent. Capriati is a two-time champion in Melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002. She is believed to have picked up the injury at the Advanta Championships at Philadelphia in November and had to pull out of an exhibition match with Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova on 17 December. Capriati also decided against competing in the Australian Open warm-up event, the Sydney International.
Labour MPs have angrily criticised Tony Blair and Gordon Brown amid renewed reports of a rift between the two men. A meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party saw a succession of normally loyal members warn that feuding could jeopardise Labour's election hopes. The PM insisted nothing would derail Labour's campaign, despite a new book saying he has upset his chancellor by backing out of a pledge to stand aside. Mr Brown will again be in the public eye at the party's new poster launch. In what the party had hoped would be perceived as a show of unity, he is due to line up alongside Alan Milburn - the man controversially appointed as the party's election supremo - and deputy leader John Prescott for the event in London on Tuesday. Relations between Mr Brown and Mr Milburn are widely reported to be cool ever since Mr Blair brought the latter back into the Cabinet to run Labour's election campaign, a role successfully carried out by Mr Brown in both 1997 and 2001. Mr Blair told the Parliamentary Labour Party on Monday: "I know from everyone here, in Cabinet and government, nothing is going to get in the way of a unified Labour Party with a unified position and winning the third term people desperately need." The prime minister and his chancellor arrived within seconds of each other for the meeting of the PLP and were seemingly in good spirits as it started. New speculation about the state of their relationship
Everton striker James Beattie has been declared fit for training on Tuesday, despite suffering an alleged assault last Saturday. Beattie, 27, is not believed to be as seriously hurt as some reports have suggested after being "the victim of an unprovoked assault" in Birmingham. He was on a night out with his girlfriend and two friends following Everton's 3-1 win over Aston Villa. "He was shaken but not badly injured," said Everton spokesman Ian Ross. He added: "He did speak to the police but will not be pressing charges. "He has spoken to manager David Moyes about what happened." Beattie was suspended for the win at Aston Villa after his red card against Chelsea and he will be available again for the Merseyside derby at Liverpool on 20 March.
US rappers Beastie Boys have won their long-running battle over the use of a sample in their song Pass the Mic. The punk-rappers used three notes of music from flautist James Newton's Choir in their track from 1992. Although the group had paid a licence fee for the sample, Mr Newton said his copyright had been infringed. But the US Court of Appeal upheld its original decision that the group did not have to pay an additional fee to license the underlying composition. The Beastie Boys - Michael Diamond, Adam Horowitz, and Adam Yauch - are considered to be one of early pioneers of sampling music. Sampling, now a standard practice among musicians, involves taking a segment of one track and using it in a different song. A three-judge panel of the court held in 2003 that the band had abided by copyright protections by paying a licence fee for a sample of Mr Newton's recording. That finding upheld a lower-court dismissal of the case in favour of the Beastie Boys. "We hold that Beastie Boys' use of a brief segment of that composition, consisting of three notes separated by a half-step over a background C note, is not sufficient to sustain a claim for infringement of Newton's copyright," Chief Judge Mary Schroeder wrote in her opinion. Mr Newton is a critically acclaimed jazz and classical flutist, composer, performer, and university professor. Mr Newton and the Beastie Boys were not available for comment.
Allan Scott is confident of winning a medal at next week's European Indoor Championships after a solid debut on the international circuit. The 22-year-old Scot finished fourth in the 60m hurdles at the Jose M Cagigal Memorial meeting in Madrid. "It was definitely a learning curve and I certainly haven't ruled out challenging for a medal next week," said the East Kilbride athlete. The race was won by Felipe Vivancos, who equalled the Spanish record. Sweden's Robert Kronberg was second, with Haiti's Dudley Dorival in third. Scott was slightly disappointed with his run in the final. He won his heat in 7.64secs but ran 0.04secs slower in his first IAAF Indoor Grand Prix circuit final. "I should have done better than that," he said. "I felt I could have won it. I got a poor start - but I still felt I should have ran faster." Vivancos slashed his personal best to equal the Spanish record with a time of 7.60secs while Kronberg and Dorival clocked 7.62secs and 7.63secs respectively.
Two of Britain's big trade unions could merge to form a "super union" of two million members. The move by Amicus and the Transport and General Workers Union (TGWU) would be a seen as a bid to carry more weight with ministers and employers. Amicus has 1.2 million members and the TGWU has 800,000. Any merger would have to be approved by the unions' executives and their membership. It is understood meetings will be held on Wednesday about the proposal. Along with the GMB and Unison, the TGWU and Amicus worked closely together in the last year to hammer out a 56-point deal with Labour's leadership over equality at work, holidays and pensions - the Warwick Agreement. Both unions are remaining tight-lipped about the merger rumours, but one insider pointed out to the BBC News website that "nobody is denying suggestions a merger could be on the agenda" when the two unions' executives hold their meetings on Wednesday. Amicus's executive was due to meet in any case although the TGWU is holding specially scheduled talks.
Rapper Eminem has denied Elvis his fourth number one of the year, after his song, Like Toy Soldiers, stormed to the top of the singles charts. The track claimed the top spot ahead of The King's latest re-release, Are You Lonesome Tonight. It is the fifth in a series of 18 reissues to mark the 70th anniversary of Presley's birth. Almost Here, the duet from former Westlife star Brian McFadden and Delta Goodrem, went in at number three. Like Toy Soldiers, from Eminem's Encore album, is sampled from Martika's 1980s hit Toy Soldiers. It takes a swipe at hip-hop feuds and follows the success of Just Lose It. Last week's number one, Elvis's It's Now or Never, slipped 13 places to number 14, but all five of his re-released songs are in the Top 40. One World Project Tsunami fundraiser, Grief Never Grows Old, slipped four places to number eight. Featuring Cliff Richard and Boy George, the song was written by former DJ Mike Read. In the album charts, Athlete's latest offering Tourist claimed the top spot, toppling the Chemical Brother's Push The Button Down, which fell to number six.
UK video game firms face a testing time as they prepare for the next round of games consoles, the industry warns. Fred Hasson, head of Tiga, which represents independent developers, said that more UK firms would go under due to greater risks in making new titles. Three leading UK video game companies also predicted that more firms would close as they struggled to adapt. Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo are expected to release new consoles in the next 18 months. Microsoft has said repeatedly that it wants to be first to the market and some analysts predict that Xbox 2 will be released in the US before the end of 2005. The new machines will all have much greater processing and graphical power which will have a huge impact on development of next generation games. Mr Hasson said: "In the last four years we have probably lost a third of independent developers." He said there were about 150 independent developers left in the industry and more were likely to close. "Once the cull has finished its likely to present those still standing with great opportunities," he said. Mr Hasson said the industry was predicting that developments costs and teams were likely to need to double in order to cope with the demands of the new machines. That figure was endorsed by three independent companies contacted by the BBC News website - Codemasters, Climax and Rebellion. "As consoles get more powerful, the content gets more detailed and that means more cost," said
New controls on economic migrants and tighter border patrols will be part of government plans unveiled on Monday. Home Secretary Charles Clarke wants to introduce a points system for economic migrants and increase deportations of failed asylum seekers. Tony Blair has said people are right to be concerned about abuses of the system but there is no "magic bullet". The Tories say Labour is acting too late while the Lib Dems say the plans may not produce an efficient system. The government's new five-year plan is designed to show how Labour would reform immigration and asylum controls if it wins the election, expected to be held in May. Ministers deny they have been spurred into action by Tory campaigning or because the prime minister is worried too little has been done. Instead, they say the plans are part of an "evolving" process aimed at winning public confidence. Mr Clarke is expected to announce an end to the automatic right to settle for immigrants' families, and the introduction of fingerprinting for all visa applicants. The prime minister on Sunday said immigration would be "toughened up" to ensure only those immigrants with skills the UK really needs will be granted work permits. But he rejected the Tories' call for a quota on economic migrants, saying no "arbitrary figure" could reflect the UK's needs. Mr Blair told BBC Radio 4's Westminster Hour: "We should cut the number or increase it depending on the country's needs... "The public are worried about this, they are
MTV has been criticised for "incessant sleaze" by television indecency campaigners in the US. The Parents Television Council (PTC), which monitors violence and sex on TV, said the cable music channel offered the "cheapest form" of programming. The group is at the forefront of a vociferous campaign to clean up American television. But a spokeswoman for MTV said it was "unfair and inaccurate" to single out MTV for criticism. The PTC monitored MTV's output for 171 hours from 20 March to 27 March 2004, during the channel's Spring Break coverage. In its report - MTV Smut Peddlers: Targeting Kids with Sex, Drugs and Alcohol - the PTC said it witnessed 3,056 flashes of nudity or sexual situations and 2,881 verbal references to sex. Brent Bozell, PTC president and conservative activist said: "MTV is blatantly selling raunchy sex to kids. "Compared to broadcast television programmes aimed at adults, MTV's programming contains substantially more sex, foul language and violence - and MTV's shows are aimed at children as young as 12. "There's no question that TV influences the attitudes and perceptions of young viewers, and MTV is deliberately marketing its raunch to millions of innocent children." The watchdog decided to look at MTV's programmes after Janet Jackson's infamous "wardrobe malfunction" at last year's Super Bowl. The breast-baring incident generated 500,000 complaints and CBS - which is owned by the same parent company as MTV - was quick to apologise. MTV spokeswoman Jeannie Kedas said the network follows the same standards as broadcasters
Tony Blair is to join Home Secretary David Blunkett in a visit to Sheffield on Thursday. Mr Blunkett's conduct is being looked at to establish whether he abused his position in relation to his ex-lover. The Parliamentary standards watchdog is looking at his decision to give Kimberly Quinn free rail tickets. He is also being investigated over the visa application of Mrs Quinn's ex-nanny. The visit to Sheffield will be seen as a show of unity by Mr Blair. On Wednesday during Prime Minister's Questions, Tory leader Michael Howard went on the offensive over comments Mr Blunkett is alleged to have made in a new biography. He is understood to have made a series of criticisms about his Cabinet colleagues from the prime minister down. Mr Howard said Mr Blunkett had complained he had inherited a "giant mess" when he took over at the Home Office from Jack Straw, now foreign secretary. The Tory leader went on: "He doesn't stop there: he thinks the culture secretary's weak; he thinks the trade secretary doesn't think strategically and he thinks the education secretary hasn't developed as expected. "He says the prime minister doesn't like being told the truth and the chancellor - no doubt the prime minister will agree with this - is a bully." Mr Blair retorted voters remembered the record of a government and no comments by politicians. The home secretary has already admitted he was wrong to give the two first class tickets, given to him as an MP,
Profits at Indian drugmaker Dr Reddy's fell 93% as research costs rose and sales flagged. The firm said its profits were 40m rupees ($915,000; £486,000) for the three months to December on sales which fell 8% to 4.7bn rupees. Dr Reddy's has built its reputation on producing generic versions of big-name pharmaceutical products. But competition has intensified and the firm and the company is short on new product launches. The most recent was the annoucement in December 2000 that it had won exclusive marketing rights for a generic version of the famous anti-depressant Prozac from its maker, Eli Lilly. It also lost a key court case in March 2004, banning it from selling a version of Pfizer's popular hypertension drug Norvasc in the US. Research and development of new drugs is continuing apace, with R&D spending rising 37% to 705m rupees - a key cause of the decrease in profits alongside the fall in sales. Patents on a number of well-known products are due to run out in the near future, representing an opportunity for Dr Reddy, whose shares are listed in New York, and other Indian generics manufacturers. Sales in Dr Reddy's generics business fell 8.6% to 966m rupees. Another staple of the the firm's business, the sale of ingredients for drugs, also performed poorly. Sales were down more than 25% from the previous year to 1.4bn rupees in the face of strong competition both at home, and in the US and Europe. Dr Reddy's Indian competitors are gathering
French actress Audrey Tautou, star of hit film Amelie, will play the female lead in the film adaptation of The Da Vinci Code, it has been reported. The movie version of Dan Brown's best-selling novel is being directed by Ron Howard and also stars Tom Hanks. Tautou will play Hanks' code-cracking partner, according to various newspapers. She is currently starring in A Very Long Engagement, directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet. Jeunet was also responsible for directing Tautou in Amelie in 2001, which launched the actress into the mainstream. She also starred as the lead role in critically-acclaimed film Dirty Pretty Things in 2002. Oscar-winning director Ron Howard chose Tautou for the part, preferring a French actress to a big name Hollywood star. UK actress Kate Beckinsale had been widely tipped as a possibility for the role alongside Vanessa Paradis and Juliette Binoche. The thriller upon which the movie is based has sold more than 17 million copies and is centred on a global conspiracy surrounding the Holy Grail mythology. The Louvre Museum, scene of the gruesome murder at the beginning of the novel, recently gave permission for filming to take place there, showbusiness newspaper Variety reported. The $100m movie will be produced by Columbia/Sony Pictures and is due for release on May 19, 2006 in the United States and France.
Euan Murray has been named in the Scotland training squad after an eight-week ban, ahead of Saturday's Six Nations match with Ireland. The Glasgow forward's ban for stamping ended on 2 February. "I'm just happy to be back playing and be involved with the squad," said Murray on Monday. "Hopefully I can get a couple of games under my belt and I might have a chance of playing later in the Six Nations. I'm just glad to be part of it all." Backs: Mike Blair (Edinburgh Rugby), Andy Craig (Glasgow Rugby), Chris Cusiter (The Borders), Simon Danielli (The Borders), Marcus Di Rollo (Edinburgh Rugby), Phil Godman (Edinburgh Rugby), Calvin Howarth (Glasgow Rugby), Ben Hinshelwood (Worcester Warriors), Andrew Henderson (Glasgow Rugby), Rory Lamont (Glasgow Rugby), Sean Lamont (Glasgow Rugby), Dan Parks (Glasgow Rugby), Chris Paterson (Edinburgh Rugby), Gordon Ross (Leeds Tykes), Hugo Southwell (Edinburgh Rugby), Simon Webster (Edinburgh Rugby) Forwards: Ross Beattie (Northampton Saints), Gordon Bulloch (captain, Glasgow Rugby), David Callam (Edinburgh Rugby), Bruce Douglas (The Borders), Jon Dunbar (Leeds Tykes), Iain Fullarton (Saracens), Stuart Grimes (Newcastle Falcons), Nathan Hines (Edinburgh Rugby), Allister Hogg (Edinburgh Rugby), Gavin Kerr (Leeds Tykes), Nick Lloyd (Saracens), Scott Lawson (Glasgow Rugby), Euan Murray (Glasgow Rugby), Scott Murray (Edinburgh Rugby), Jon Petrie (Glasgow Rugby), Robbie Russell (London Irish), Tom Smith (Northampton Saints), Jason White (Sale Sharks).
Irish shares have risen to a record high, with investors persuaded to buy into the market by low inflation and strong growth forecasts. The ISEQ index of leading shares closed up 23 points to 6661.89 on Thursday, fuelled by strong growth in banking and financial stocks. A fall in the rate of inflation to 2.3% in January gave a fresh boost to shares which have advanced 4% this month. The economy is set for strong growth in 2005 while interest rates remain low. Several of Ireland's biggest companies saw their market value hit recent highs on Thursday. Allied Irish Banks, Ireland's biggest company by capitalisation, touched a five year peak while Bank of Ireland shares rose to their highest level since August 2002. Telecoms firm Eircom, which recently revealed that it would re-enter the Irish mobile phone market, hit a yearly high. Analysts said that economic conditions were benign and Irish shares were still trading at a discount to other European markets. "Ireland ticks all the boxes as far as international investors are concerned," Roy Asher, chief investment officer of Hibernian Investment Managers, told Reuters. "Buoyant economic conditions are set to continue in Ireland over the next few years and Irish equities continue to offer quality growth at a reasonable valuation." Bernard McAlinden, head of equity research at NCB Stockbrokers, said equities represented good value compared to other investments. "It is still looking good," he told Reuters. "We have seen good economic data on Ireland which benefits the financial stocks."
US crude prices have soared to fresh four-month highs above $53 in the US as refinery problems propelled petrol prices to an all-time high. US light sweet crude futures jumped to $53.09 a barrel in New York before closing at $53.03. The gains tracked a surge in US gasoline futures to a record high of $1.4850 a gallon. The jump followed a fire at Western Refining Company's refinery in Texas, which shut down petrol production. A spokesman for the group was unable to say when the production unit would be back up and running. "This market simply wants to go up," Citigroup Global Markets analyst Kyle Cooper told Reuters news agency. Ed Silliere, analyst at Energy Merchant, added: "Gasoline is up because of the refinery issues in Texas, which means there will be a scramble for product in the (US) Gulf Coast." Elsewhere, a refinery in Houston was closed due to mechanical problems, while on Tuesday production at BP's Texas City refinery was taken down for a short time. In the approach to Spring, the market becomes much more sensitive to problems with petrol production as dealers anticipate rising demand for fuel ahead of the holiday season. The rise in prices came despite a US government report that showed domestic supplies of fuel oil and fuel were rising. Meanwhile, oil production cartel Opec's recent announcement that it was now unlikely to cut production levels has also failed to calm fears on the market. Oil prices are roughly 45% higher than
Manchester City's Paul Bosvelt will find out "within a month" whether he is to be offered a new one-year deal. The 34-year-old Dutch midfielder is out of contract in the summer and, although his age may count against him, he feels he can play on for another season. "I told the club I would like to stay for one more year. They promised me an answer within the next month so I am waiting to see," he said. "The main concern is my age but I think I have proved I am fit enough. Bosvelt joined City from Feyenoord in 2003 and at first he struggled to adapt to life in England. But his professionalism and dedication impressed manager Kevin Keegan. "He realised the pace of the game was faster than anything he was used to but he drove himself back into the team. He is an unsung hero," said Keegan.
Ministers are unhappy about plans to use Whitehall cash to keep council tax bills down, local government minister Nick Raynsford has acknowledged. Gordon Brown reallocated £512m from central to local government budgets in his pre-Budget report on Thursday. Mr Raynsford said he had held some "pretty frank discussions" with fellow ministers over the plans. But he said local governments had to deliver good services without big council tax rises. The central government cash is part of a £1bn package to help local authorities in England keep next year's council tax rises below 5%, in what is likely to be a general election year. Mr Raynsford said nearly all central government departments had an interest in well run local authorities. And he confirmed rows over the issue with ministerial colleagues. "Obviously we had some pretty frank discussions about this," he told BBC Radio 4's The World at One. But he said there was a recognition that "a good settlement for local government" was important to health, education and "other government departments". Ministers had to be sure local government could deliver without "unreasonable council tax increases", he added. Mr Raynsford dismissed a suggestion the move was designed to keep council taxes down ahead of an expected general election. "This is a response to the concerns that have been voiced by local government about the pressures they face." Mr Raynsford also plans to make savings of £100m by making changes to local government pensions schemes. These would raise the age from which retiring
Manchester rock band Doves have entered the UK album chart at number one with their new release, Some Cities. The trio replace flamboyant US act Scissor Sisters at the top. The album follows single Black and White Town, which reached number six. R&B star Nelly has the new number one single with Over and Over, which sees him team up with Tim McGraw. Girls Aloud, Akon and Kaiser Chiefs all have new singles in the top ten, as do Futureheads and Usher. The latest Elvis Presley re-release, (Marie's The Name) His Latest Flame, entered the chart at number three, one place ahead of Girls Aloud's Wake Me Up. Hip-hop performer Akon's Locked Up is at number five, while hotly-tipped Leeds band Kaiser Chiefs have their second chart hit at number six with Oh My God. Futureheads' cover of Kate Bush's Hounds of Love entered the chart at number eight, while Usher's Caught Up was a new entry at number nine. In the album chart, operatic quartet Il Divo's eponymous debut rose 23 places to number six, while crooner Tony Christie's Definitive Collection is a new entry at number 10, making it the highest-charting album of the singer's career.
BMW is to recall all cars equipped with a faulty diesel fuel-injection pump supplied by parts maker Robert Bosch. The faulty part does not represent a safety risk and the recall only affects pumps made in December and January. BMW said that it was too early to say how many cars were affected or how much the recall would cost. The German company is to extend a planned production break at one of its plants due to the faulty Bosch part. The Dingolfing site will now be closed all next week instead of for just two days. The additional three-day stoppage will mean a production loss of up to 3,600 vehicles, BMW said, adding that it was confident it could make up the numbers later. Bosch has stopped production of the part but expects to restart by 2 February. The faulty component does not represent a safety risk but causes the motor to stall after a significant amount of mileage. When asked if BMW would be seeking compensation from Bosch, the carmaker's chief executive Helmut Panke said: "we will first solve the problem before talking about who will pay". Audi and Mercedes Benz were also supplied with the defective diesel fuel-injection pumps but neither of them have to recall any vehicles. A spokesman for DaimlerChrysler, parent company of Mercedes Benz, said it will however have to halt some production. It is to close the Mercedes factory in Sindelfingen on Monday and Tuesday. Audi said it had been hit by production
A failed government scheme to offer UK university courses online has been branded a "disgraceful waste" by MPs. The e-University was scrapped last year, having attracted only 900 students at a cost of £50m. Chief executive John Beaumont was paid a bonus of £44,914, despite a failure to bring in private sector backers. The Commons education select committee called this "morally indefensible" but the government said the e-University project had "improved understanding". A Department for Education and Skills spokeswoman said the venture had been "ambitious and ground-breaking, but take-up had not been "sufficient to continue with the project". She added: "UK e-Universities was not the only organisation to have lost out on private sector investment in the collapse of the dotcom boom." The select committee found that those responsible for founding the e-University in 2000 had been caught up in the "general atmosphere of enthusiasm" surrounding the internet. Initial business plans forecast a quarter of a million students joining within a decade, bringing in at least £110m in profit. But virtually no market research was carried out and just £4.2m was spent on worldwide sales and marketing of courses. Some £14m went on developing the technology to make the e-University work. This was used by just 200 students, the rest preferring to work through existing university websites. With no significant private investors and no direct accountability to a government minister, the e-University had had "too much freedom to spend public money as it wished", the report found. Committee chairman Barry
Susan Chepkemei has decided she is fit enough to run in next month's Great Edinburgh International Cross Country. The Kenyan was initially unsure if she would have recovered from her gruelling tussle with Paula Radcliffe in the New York Marathon in time to compete. But she has declared herself up to the task and joins a field headed by World cross country champion Benita Johnson. Race director Matthew Turnbull said: "Susan will add even more strength in depth to the world-class line up." Chepkemei, who won the six kilometre event three years ago when it was staged in Newcastle, endured an epic battle with Radcliffe in the Big Apple until the Briton outsprinted her in the final 400m. Tirunesh Dibaba of Ethiopia will defend the title she won last year in Tyneside - before the race was moved north of the border. Recently-crowned European cross country champion Briton Hayley Yelling also competes in Edinburgh on 15 January, as does in-form Scot Kathy Butler.
German investment bank Deutsche Bank has challenged the right of Yukos to claim bankruptcy protection in the US. In a court filing on Tuesday, it said the Russian oil giant has few Texas ties beyond bank accounts and a Texas-based finance chief. Deutsche Bank claimed Yukos had artificially manufactured a legal case to stop the sale of its main asset. It had wanted to help fund Gazprom's plans for a $10bn (£5.18bn) bid for Yukos unit Yuganskneftegas. Deutsche Bank would have earned large fees from the deal, which could not be carried out because US chapter 11 bankruptcy rules made the Kremlin's auction of Yuganskneftegas on 19 December illegal under US law. But the US bankruptcy court judge in Texas granted Yukos an injunction that barred Gazprom and its lenders from taking part. Yuganskneftegas will ultimately end up with Gazprom. The winning bidder at the auction was a previously unknown firm, Baikal Finance Group, which was snapped up days later by Rosneft, a Russian oil firm that is in the process of merging with Gazprom. The effect of these transactions is to renationalise Yuganskneftegas. Deutsche Bank contends Yukos filed for bankruptcy earlier this month in Texas in a desperate and unsuccessful bid to stave off the 19 December auction of its top unit by the Russian government, which was in a tax dispute with Yukos. "This blatant attempt to artificially manufacture a basis for jurisdiction constitutes cause to dismiss this case," Deutsche Bank said in its court filing. Mike Lake,
Motley Crue guitarist Mick Mars is being sued by his ex-girlfriend for $10 million (£5.4 million), claiming he broke a promise to take care of her. The woman, Robin Mantooth, said Mars promised her repeatedly that he would provide financial support in the event of the couple breaking up. When they split in December, Mantooth says Mars denied any such agreement. She is asking a Los Angeles court to award her half the musician's property, a monthly allowance and damages. Mantooth added that the pair became lovers in 1990, after which she abandoned her career as a documentary film-maker to move in with the guitarist at his Malibu home. She is also claiming that Mars, 53, has failed to provide her with any material support since they ceased to be a couple. Motley Crue recently reunited after being apart for a period of five years. They originally formed in the early 1980s and scored six hits in the UK, including Girls Girls Girls in 1987. They are embarking on a world tour later this year which will take in 60 cities across the US, Europe, Asia and Australia. Mars - real name Bob Allen Deal - underwent hip replacement surgery in October. He suffers from a degenerative rheumatic disease which causes ligaments and tendons to attach to the bone.
Jackie Stallone, mother of actor Sylvester, has become the first star to be evicted from Celebrity Big Brother. She and John McCririck faced the public vote on Friday - 67% of people voted to keep the racing pundit in the house. Stallone, 71, appeared not to have enjoyed her time in the house saying: "I'm a total wreck, I need a vacation, this was a nightmare". But she was pleased to have patched things up with actress Brigitte Nielsen, her former daughter-in-law. "That alone was worth $1m," she said. Stallone joined the Channel 4 show on Monday as a surprise for Nielsen. She was hot favourite to be evicted first, with odds of 1/4 to leave. But McCririck has made some enemies with his outspoken views about women. Ladbrokes spokesman Warren Lush said: "We may have underestimated the power of the anti-McCririck brigade, but it's so hard to call with him, there are people out there who either love him or hate him, there is no middle ground." The bookmakers have made former Happy Mondays dancer Bez favourite to win the show at 7/4, while Blazin' Squad singer Kenzie is second at 2/1. "Bez has wooed the viewers and looks the one to beat, he's kept his nose clean and doesn't take anything too seriously," Mr Lush said. Earlier on Friday 15 protesters from the Fathers 4 Justice campaign group were arrested after entering the Big Brother compound at 0300 GMT and throwing fireworks. Feminist icon Germaine Greer quit the
Singapore's economy grew by 8.1% in 2004, its best performance since 2000, figures from the trade ministry show. The advance, the second-fastest in Asia after China, was led by growth of 13.1% in the key manufacturing sector. However, a slower-than-expected fourth quarter points to more modest growth for the trade-driven economy in 2005 as global technology demand falls back. Slowdowns in the US and China could hit electronics exports, while the tsunami disaster may effect the service sector. Economic growth is set to halve in Singapore this year to between 3% and 5%. In the fourth quarter, the city state's gross domestic product (GDP) rose at an annual rate of 2.4%. That was up from the third quarter, when it fell 3.0%, but was well below analyst forecasts. "I am surprised at the weak fourth quarter number. The main drag came from electronics," said Lian Chia Liang, economist at JP Morgan Chase. Singapore's economy had contracted over the summer, weighed down by soaring oil prices. The economy's poor performance in the July to September period followed four consecutive quarters of double-digit growth as Singapore bounced back strongly from the effects of the deadly Sars virus in 2003.
The Mac Mini was launched amid much fanfare by Apple and great excitement by Apple watchers last month. But does the latest Macintosh justify the hype? Let us get a few things dealt with at the outset - yes, the Mac Mini is really, really small, and yes, it is another piece of inspired Apple design. There is more to be said on the computer's size and design but it is worth highlighting that the Mac Mini is a just a computer. Inside that small box there is a G4 processor, a CD/DVD player, a hard drive, some other technical bits and bobs and an operating system. A DVD burner, wireless and bluetooth technologies can be bought at extra cost. And if you do not have a monitor, keyboard or mouse then you will need to purchase those also. It is not the fastest computer for the money but for under £400 you are getting something more interesting than mere technical specifications - Apple software. The Mac Mini comes bundled with Mac OS X, the operating system, as well as iLife 05, a suite of software which includes iTunes, web browser Safari, iPhoto, Garage Band and iDVD. I doubt many PC lovers would seriously argue that Windows XP comes with a better suite of programs than Mac OS X. Of course, users of open source operating system Linux draw up their own menu of programs. For people who want to do interesting things with their music, photos and home movies
Next has said its annual profit will be £5m lower than previously expected because its end-of-year clearance sale has proved disappointing. "Clearance rates in our end-of-season sale have been below our expectations," the company said. The High Street retailer said it now expected to report annual profits of between £415m and £425m ($779m-798m). Next's shares fell more than 3% following the release of the trading statement. Next chief executive Simon Wolfson admitted that festive sales were "below where we would expect a normal Christmas to be", but said sales should still top analyst expectations. Among areas where Next could have done better, Mr Wolfson said menswear ranges were "a little bit too similar to the previous year". Mr Wolfson also said that disappointing pre-Christmas sales were "more to do with the fact that we went in with too much stock rather than (the fact that) demand wasn't there for the stock". Next's like-for-like store sales in the five months from 3 August to 24 December were up 2.9% on a year earlier. This figure is for existing Next stores, which were unaffected by new Next store openings. Like-for-like sales growth at the 49 Next stores directly affected by new store openings in their locality was 0.5%. Overall sales across both its retail and mail order divisions were up 12.4%, Next said. Its Next Directory mail order division saw sales rise 13.4% during the five-month period. "In terms of all the worries about their trading pre-Christmas, it's a result," said Nick
Greek sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou are expected to find out on Wednesday if they will be banned for missing drugs tests this summer. The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) council held a conference call on Tuesday and are set to announce their decision. Kenteris and Thanou could be suspended for up to two years. The duo withdrew from the Olympics after missing a test but claimed they had suffered a motorcycle crash. The Greek authorities have also brought criminal charges against the sprinters for avoiding a drugs test and faking an accident. Their former coach Christos Tzekos is also facing charges and all three are awaiting a trial date. However, the IAAF will determine the sprinters' future on the track after carefully considering all the evidence. The sport's ruling body is expected to direct the Greek federation in what action it should take against the sprinters. Kenteris and Thanou can appeal against any decision at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. The sprinters both sent written explanations to the IAAF, which have been taken into account. The IAAF sent an official warning to the sprinters and coach Tzekos after they were discovered training in Qatar rather than in Crete, where they had said they would be. But Kenteris and Thanou then went on to skip tests in Tel Aviv and Chicago, when they decided to fly back to Greece early. Just before the Olympics, the pair dramatically missed another test in Athens before withdrawing from the Games.
Has there been a better Six Nations match than Saturday's epic in Paris? And can the Welsh revival continue all the way to a first Grand Slam since 1978? Those are the two questions occupying not just Wales supporters but rugby fans as a whole after a scintillating display in Paris. Welsh legend Mervyn Davies, a member of two of three Grand Slam-winning sides of the 1970s, hailed it as "one of the great performances of the past three decades". Martyn Williams, Wales' two-try scorer on the day, called it "one of the most surreal games I have ever played in". A crestfallen France coach, Bernard Laporte, simply observed: "There was a French half and there was a Welsh half". And what a half it was for the Red Dragonhood, transforming a 15-6 half-time deficit into an 18-15 lead within five mesmerising minutes of the second period. But while that passage of play showed the swelling self-belief of a side prepared to back its own spirit of adventure, the final quarter told us a whole lot more about this Welsh side. That they recovered from a battering in the first half-hour to first stem the tide before half-time, then reverse it on the resumption, was remarkable enough. But in resisting a seemingly unstoppable wave of French pressure in a nail-biting final five minutes, Wales showed not only their physical attributes but their mental resolve. In international rugby, any of the top seven sides can beat each other on a given
An second-half goal from Andy Scott condemned Mansfield to a ninth successive game without a win. Early in the second half Wayne Carlisle's cross was met by Scott and he blasted the ball home from just outside the penalty area. As Orient chased a second, Mansfield had to clear Alan White's header off the line and Kevin Pilkington saved well from Michael Simpson. By the end Mansfield fans were chanting for the head of chairman Keith Haslam. Pilkington, Talbot, Buxton, Dimech, Artell, Corden, Murray, Curtis, Neil, Warne, Barker. Subs Not Used: White, McIntosh, Wood, Lloyd, Herron. Harrison, Lockwood, Donny Barnard, White,Mackie, Scott, Saah, Simpson, Carlisle, Lee Barnard, Ibehre. Subs Not Used: Morris, Wardley, Newey, Zakuani, McMahon. Scott 51. 3,803 S Mathieson (Cheshire).
The world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, has agreed to pay a total of $14.5m (£7.74m) to settle a lawsuit over gun sales violations in California. The lawsuit alleged Wal-Mart committed thousands of gun sales violations in California between 2000 and 2003. The total payment includes $5m in fines and more than $4m to fund state compliance checks with gun laws and prevent ammunition sales to minors. Wal-Mart agreed to suspend firearms sales in its California stores in 2003, The alleged violations included the sale of guns to 23 people who were not allowed to possess them, and delivering 36 guns to customers who acquired them for people not allowed to own firearms. Although Wal-Mart has suspended firearms sales in the state, California attorney general Bill Lockyer said he wanted to be sure the giant supermarket chain would follow state rules in future. "Wal-Mart's failure to comply with gun safety laws put the lives of all Californians at risk by placing guns in the hands of criminals and other prohibited persons," said Mr Lockyer. "Although Wal-Mart has suspended gun sales in California, this settlement will ensure that it follows state law if it renews sales and will also provide valuable public education about the importance of gun safety." The world's largest retailer has not yet decided whether to resume firearms sales in California, company spokesman Gus Whitcomb said.
UK-based bank Standard Chartered said it would spend $3.3bn (£1.8bn) to buy one of South Korea's main retail banks. Standard Chartered said acquiring Korea First Bank (KFB) fulfilled a strategic objective of building a bigger presence in Asia's third largest economy. Its shares fell nearly 3% in London as the bank raised funds for the deal by selling new stocks worth £1bn ($1.8bn), equal to 10% of its share capital. Standard Chartered expects about 16% of future group revenue to come from KFB. The South Korean bank will also make up 22% of the group's total assets. The move, a year after Citigroup beat Standard Chartered to buy Koram bank, would be the South Korean financial sector's biggest foreign takeover. This time around, Standard Chartered is thought to have beaten HSBC to the deal. KFB is South Korea's seventh largest bank, with 3 million retail customers, 6% of the country's banking market and an extensive branch network. The country's banking market is three times the size of Hong Kong's with annual revenues of $44bn. Standard Chartered has its headquarters in London but does two thirds of its business in Asia, and much of the rest in Africa. "We're comfortable with the price paid...the key here has been speed and decisiveness in making sure that we won," said Standard Chartered chief executive Mervyn Davies at a London press conference. Standard Chartered said KFB was a "well-managed, conservatively run bank with a highly skilled workforce" and represented a "significant acquisition in a
The January sales have failed to help the UK High Street recover from a poor Christmas season, a survey has found. Stores received a boost from bargain hunters but trading then reverted to December levels, the British Retail Consortium and accountants KPMG said. Sales in what is traditionally a strong month rose by 0.5% on a like-for-like basis, compared with a year earlier. Consumers remain cautious over buying big-ticket items like furniture, said BRC director general Kevin Hawkins. Higher interest rates and uncertainty over the housing market continue to take their toll on the retail sector, the BRC said. But clothing and footwear sales were said to be generally better than December, while department stores also had a good month. In the three-months to January, like-for-like sales showed a growth rate of -0.1%, the same as in the three months to December, the BRC said. "Following a relatively strong New Year's bank holiday, trading then took a downward turn," said Mr Hawkins. "Even extending some promotions and discounts and the pay-day boost later in the month could not tempt customers." The previous BRC survey found Christmas 2004 was the worst for 10 years for retailers. And according to Office for National Statistics data, sales in December failed to meet expectations and by some counts were the worst since 1981.
Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson has said that it will be up to four years before he starts work on a film version of The Hobbit. The Oscar winner said on a visit to Sydney there was a "desire" to make it, but not before lengthy negotiations. "I think it's gonna be a lot of lawyers sitting in a room trying to thrash out a deal before it will ever happen," said the New Zealander. The rights to JRR Tolkien's book are split between two major film studios. Jackson, who is currently filming a remake of Hollywood classic King Kong, said he thought that the sale of MGM studios to the Sony Corporation would cast further uncertainty on the project. The 43-year-old was in the Australian city to visit a Lord of the Rings exhibition, which has attracted 140,000 visitors since it opened in December. The film-maker recently sued film company New Line Cinema for undisclosed damages over alleged withheld profits and lost revenue from the first part of the Middle Earth trilogy. The Fellowship of The Ring from 2001 went on to make worldwide profits of $291 million (£152 million). Jackson is thought to have secured the most lucrative film directing deal in history to remake King Kong, which is currently in production in Wellington. The picture, which stars Naomi Watts and Oscar winner Adrien Brody, is due to be released in December. Jackson has also committed to making a film version of Lovely Bones, based on
Ulster clung on for a morale-boosting Celtic League win over bottom club Borders at Netherdale on Friday night. A late try by Borders substitute Jonny Weston had set up a dramatic finish, but the Scottish side could not complete the fightback. Ulster had led 20-6 with tries from Paul Steinmetz and Bryn Cunningham. But the Irish province failed to add to the tally in the second half and ended up relieved to get the win to lift them to eighth place in the table. Borders had edged ahead with a sixth-minute penalty by Charlie Hore - only to hand the visitors the initiative via a gift try. Calum MacRae surrendered possession before centre Steinmetz sent a chip into the danger zone. Substitute Joe Pattison - who had come on for the injured Gareth Morton - wrongly thought the ball was trickling out of play and eased up on the chase. The speedy Steinmetz had other ideas and he raced up to get the vital touch in the nick of time, giving Adam Larkin an easy conversion. Ally Warnock clawed back three points for Borders, but they were soon hit by another double-blow. First, Mark Blair was yellow carded for killing the ball on the ground and then full-back Cunningham bagged the second touchdown in the wake of fine work by skipper Andy Ward. Larkin again added the extras. Even worse was to come for Borders when Larkin kicked two more penalties just before the break, the second of which also
Terrorists might try to target the UK in the run-up to the election, London's most senior police officer has said. Sir Ian Blair said terror groups would remember the effect of the Madrid bomb on Spain's general election last year. Other potential targets were the royal wedding and the UK's presidency of the European Union and G8, he said. He refused to say if there was specific information about the risk of a pre-poll attack. No 10 was similarly cautious but said the threat was real. The comments come after Tony Blair defended his controversial anti-terror proposals, warning that it would be wrong to wait for an attack before acting. Sir Ian told a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority it would be "unwise" to speculate about whether there was specific information about risks of a pre-election attack. But he said: "Terrorists have long memories. They understand what happened in Madrid and know what the impact of that was on the Spanish electorate. "This year we are responsible for the EU presidency, presidency of the G8, a royal wedding and a general election. "There are obvious and enormous targets which we have to deal with." Sir Ian said the debate over anti-terror plans was one for politicians, not the police, who would enforce any new powers. Home Secretary Charles Clarke has also warned that a Madrid-style pre-election bombing could happen in the UK too. Asked about Sir Ian's comments, the prime minister's official spokesman said: "We believe the threat is
US rap duo OutKast's trio of trophies at the MTV Europe Awards crowns a year of huge success for the band. The latest triumph adds to the three Grammys and four American MTV gongs won earlier in this year. Andre 3000 and Big Boi's album Speakerboxxx/The Love Below has been critically acclaimed since its release and sold in large quantities around the world. The double album - which saw the pair produce one disc each - topped the charts in the US at the same time as single Hey Ya! It took another track from the exponents of southern hip-hop - The Way You Move - to displace it from the top spot. The Georgia pair's year of critical and commercial triumph leaves them with a tough act to follow - what can be next for a musical act that has done it all? G Money, a presenter on the BBC's urban music station 1Xtra, thinks a hiatus is inevitable after such a sustained period of exposure - giving the band time to think about other interests. "They might be more appearances outside the band, such as producing for other artists, while they have a number of fringe music projects. "Andre 3000 would like to go into acting, so we might see him a film, while Big Boi already has a dog-breeding business," says the DJ. "But in a couple of years they will be back with another album which will be a collaboration unlike their double CD. "Their greatness
A study of the United States at war in the past 50 years has picked up one of the main awards at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival in Utah, in the US. Why We Fight scooped the grand jury prize for documentaries at the world's leading independent film festival. British director Sean McAllister's The Liberace of Baghdad - about a pianist in war-torn Iraq - won a special prize in the world documentary category. Both Why We Fight and The Liberace of Baghdad were made for the BBC. Why We Fight is due to be screened on BBC Four in March. The Sundance festival was founded by actor Robert Redford in 1981. This year's festival - which ended on Sunday after a 11-day run - has been dominated by the themes of war and politics. In the new world cinema drama category, the Angolan film The Hero triumphed to win the grand jury prize. The film - an Angolan/French/Portuguese production - tells the story of a veteran of the country's civil war who returns home to face a new battle of survival. Twelve films competing in the new world cinema documentary category focused on countries and people under siege. Finnish film The Three Rooms of Melancholia looks at the war in Chechnya and Shake Hands With The Devil: The Journey of Romeo Dallaire tells the story of a UN mission to Rwanda during the 1994 genocide. But it was Dutch documentary Shape of the Moon - a study of an
Four British athletes have been pre-selected to compete at the World Cross Country Championships in March after impressive starts to the season. Hayley Yelling, Jo Pavey, Karl Keska and Adam Hickey will represent Team GB at the event in France. Yelling clinched the women's European cross country title last month and Pavey followed up with bronze. Keska helped the men's team to overall third place while Hickey finished in 10th place on his junior debut. "Winning the European cross country title meant so much to me," said Yelling. "And being pre-selected for the Worlds means that I can focus on preparing in the best way possible." The 32-year-old will race alongside Olympic 5,000m finalist Pavey in the women's 8km race on 19 March. Keska, who has made a successful return from a long-term injury lay-off, contests the men's 12km race on 20 March, while 16-year-old Hickey goes in the junior men's 8km on the same day. The rest of the team will be named after the trials at Wollaton Park in Nottingham, which take place on 5 March.
The Open Society Institute (OSI), financed by billionaire George Soros, has accused Kazakhstan officials of trying to close down its local office. A demand for unpaid taxes and fines of $600,000 (£425,000) is politically motivated, the OSI claimed, adding that it paid the money in October. The organisation has found itself in trouble after being accused of helping to topple Georgia's former president. It denies having any role, but offices have had to close across the region. The OSI shut its office in Moscow last year and has withdrawn from Uzbekistan and Belarus. In the Ukraine earlier this year, Mr Soros - who took on the Bank of England in the 1990s - and won, was pelted by protestors. "This legal prosecution can be considered an attempt by the government to force Soros Foundation-Kazakhstan to cease its activities in Kazakhstan and shut its doors for Kazakh citizens and organisations," the OSI said. The OSI aims to promote democratic and open, market-based societies. Since the break up of the Soviet Union in 1991, Kazakhstan has been dominated by its president Nursultan Abish-uly Nazarbayev. He has powers for life, while insulting the president and officials has been made a criminal offence. The government controls the printing presses and most radio and TV transmission facilities. It operates the country's national radio and TV networks. Recent elections were criticised as flawed and the opposition claimed there was widespread vote rigging. Supporters, however, say he brings much needed stability to a region where Islamic militancy
South Africa biggest retail bank Absa has said it is still in talks with UK bank Barclays over the sale of majority stake in the group. In November, Absa said it was close to striking a deal with Barclays. But the group said Barclays is still waiting for the approval of South Africa's banking and competition authorities to make a formal offer. Absa also announced that it expects to see earnings grow by 20-25% in its current financial year. "Discussions with Barclays are continuing, but shareholders are advised that no agreement has been reached as to any offer being made by Barclays to acquire a majority stake in Absa," Absa said in a statement. If Barclays buys a stake in Absa it will be one of the largest foreign investments in South Africa in recent years. Absa currently has a market value of about $8.5bn (£4.4bn). Analysts said Absa's earnings forecast was better than expected. However, the company warned that headline earnings growth would be trimmed by about four percentage points because of share options for a black economic empowerment transaction and a staff share incentive scheme. The South African group will release its results for the year to 31 March on 30 May.
Twenty-eight people, including a Briton, have been arrested after a global operation against a website allegedly involved in identity fraud. Those arrested are accused of operating Shadowcrew.com, which investigators claim was a global clearing house for criminals involved in credit card fraud. A 19-year-old man from Camberley, Surrey, was arrested by the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit but has been bailed. Operation Firewall, led by the US Secret Service, involved seven nations. The British teenager was arrested on Wednesday but details only emerged on Friday. He has now been bailed to return to a Surrey police station in December. All 28 people detained globally are suspected of being involved in an internet-based network which stole people's identities and used computers and websites to defraud credit card companies. The authorities in the US, who have indicted 19 people in Newark, New Jersey, estimate the fraud caused losses of more than $4m. Assistant US Attorney Scott Christie said several people had been arrested in Argentina, Bulgaria, Canada, Estonia, Poland and Sweden. Mr Christie said one of the ringleaders was believed to be a Russian, Anatoly Tyukanov. Investigators from 30 law enforcement agencies worldwide spent 15 months looking into the activities of three websites - Shadowcrew, Carderplanet and Darkprofits. The US Secret Service was first tipped off in July 2003. An NHTCU spokeswoman said the American investigators went undercover on the Shadowcrew website and discovered some of the site's 4,000 members were using it for organised crime purposes. She said criminals were using the
Microsoft has unveiled the finished version of its home-grown search engine. The now formally launched MSN search site takes the training wheels off the test version unveiled in November 2003. The revamped engine indexes more pages than before, can give direct answers to factual questions, and features tools to help people create detailed queries. Microsoft faces challenges establishing itself as a serious search site because of the intense competition for queries. Google still reigns supreme as the site people turn to most often when they go online to answer a query, keep up with news or search for images. But in the last year Google has faced greater competition than ever for users as old rivals, such as Yahoo and Microsoft, and new entrants such as Amazon and Blinkx, try to grab some of the searching audience for themselves. This renewed interest has come about because of the realisation that many of the things people do online begin with a search for information - be it for a particular web page, recipe, book, gadget, news story, image or anything else. Microsoft is keen to make its home-grown search engine a significant rival to Google. To generate its corpus of data, Microsoft has indexed 5 billion webpages and claims to update its document index every two days - more often than rivals. The Microsoft search engine can also answer specific queries directly rather than send people to a page that might contain the answer. For its direct answer feature, Microsoft is
Yukos will return to a US court on Wednesday to seek sanctions against Baikal Finance Group, the little-known firm which has bought its main asset. Yukos has said it will sue Baikal and others involved in the sale of Yuganskneftegas for $20bn in damages. Yukos' US lawyers will attempt to have Baikal assets frozen after the Russian government ignored a US court order last week blocking the sale. Baikal's background and its motives for buying the unit are still unclear. Russian newspapers have claimed that Baikal - which bought the Yuganskneftegas production unit for $9.4bn (261bn roubles, £4.8bn) on Sunday at a state provoked auction - has strong links with Surgutneftegas, Russia's fourth-biggest oil producer. Many observers believe that the unit, which produces 60% of Yukos' oil output, could ultimately fall into the hands of Surgutneftegas or even Gazprom, the state gas firm which opted out of the auction. The Russian government forced the sale of Yukos' most lucrative asset as part of its action to enforce a $27bn back tax bill it says the company owes. Yukos' US lawyers claim the auction was illegal because the firm had filed for bankruptcy and therefore its assets were now under the protection of US bankruptcy law which has worldwide jurisdiction. On Wednesday, Yukos will also seek further legal remedies to prevent the break-up of the group. "We believe the auction was illegal and we intend to pursue all legal recourses available to us," Yukos spokesman Mike Lake told Agence France Press.
The UK has 529 quangos financed with billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash - many of which are useless or duplicate each other's efforts, a report claims. Essential Guide to British Quangos 2005 author Dan Lewis said at least 111 of the appointed bodies had been set up since Labour won power in 1997. He urged a limit on the number of quangos that could be set up by any individual government department. Tories and Lib Dems welcomed the report and called for a "slimming down". Conservative deregulation spokesman John Redwood said: "The research endorses our policy of destroying unwanted and unnecessary quangos, and slimming down the rest. "A Conservative government will axe 162 quangos, as part of its drive for more efficient and more accountable government." Lib Dem spokesman Ed Davey meanwhile said instead of the "bonfire of quangos" New Labour had promised, there had been an "explosion" of them. "For over two decades, under both Tory and Labour governments, these unaccountable agencies have mushroomed. "Liberal Democrats would abolish many, merge others, and make any that remain properly accountable." Labour representatives were unavailable for comment. The quango guide follows last year's government-commissioned Gershon Report which recommended significant cuts in bureaucracy across the public sector. Mr Lewis wants a public inquiry into regional development agencies which cost £1.8bn a year - cash he says which "appears to be almost entirely wasted". As well as a departmental limit on quangos he also wants a statutory five-year limit on any such body
Tim Henman was named player of the year for 2004 by the Lawn Tennis Association at Wimbledon on Monday. The Briton was recognised for the best year of his career, which saw him reach the semis at the French and US Opens. Scotland's Andrew Murray was named young player of the year after winning the US Open juniors, as well as a Futures event in Italy. And world number one Peter Norfolk won disabled player of the year after claiming his third US Open crown. Great Britain's under 14 boys won the team of the year prize for their victory at the World Junior Tennis event in August. Henman will start his 2005 campaign at the Kooyong event on 12 January in a field that includes Roger Federer, Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi. And the Briton is optimistic of surpassing his best effort of a fourth-round place at the Australian Open, which begins the following week. "I've often felt that the conditions suit my game in Melbourne so I'd love to be able to start next year by doing well at the Australian Open," Henman told his website. "That's why I've changed my schedule slightly by committing to play in the Kooyong Classic. "I'll be able to acclimatise while practising before the event and then will be guaranteed matches against the best players in the world. "I think that will give me the best possible chance of doing well at the Australian Open."
Ewood Park Tuesday, 1 March 2000 GMT Howard Webb (South Yorkshire) home to Leicester in the quarter-finals But defender Andy Todd is suspended and could be replaced by Dominic Matteo - if he recovers from a hamstring injury. Burnley have major injury concerns over Frank Sinclair and John McGreal. Michael Duff looks set to continue at right-back with John Oster in midfield and Micah Hyde is expected to recover from a knee injury. - Blackburn boss Mark Hughes: "Burnley are resolute and have individual talent but I fully expect us to progress. "I thought we were comfortable in the first game and never thought we were under pressure. "It's a competition we want to progress in and we are doing okay. If we beat Burnley, we have a home tie against another lower league club (Leicester)." - Burnley boss Steve Cotterill: "They will be fresh and we'll be tired. That is an honest opinion but our lads just might be able to get themselves up for one more big game. "The atmosphere at the last game was very hot - a good verbal contest. "Our fans will not need whipping up for this game. I just want them to help us as much as they can in a positive way." KEY MATCH STATS - BLACKBURN ROVERS against Bolton is part two of an East Lancashire hotpot that didn't turn out to be that spicy when first staged on a Sunday lunchtime the weekend before last, and resulted in a scrappy
Cherie Blair has been accused of criticising George W Bush's policies in a private address she gave during a United States lecture tour. The prime minister's wife is said to have praised the Supreme Court for overruling the White House on the legal rights of Guantanamo Bay detainees. The Tories said she broke a convention that British political figures do not act in a partisan way when abroad. But Downing Street said she was speaking in her capacity as a lawyer. It said she was not expressing political opinions. Mrs Blair's remarks are said to have been made in a speech to law students in Massachusetts. She said the decision by the US Supreme Court to give legal protection to two Britons held at Guantanamo Bay was a significant victory for human rights and the international rule of law. She also described the US legal code as an outdated grandfather clock and welcomed a decision to throw out a law backed by Mr Bush relating to sodomy in Texas. BBC news correspondent Gary O'Donoghue said Mrs Blair was likely to face further calls for restraint, since the US election is imminent. "There have been some objections from people reasonably close to the Bush administration about her making these comments in their backyard just two days before a presidential election," he said. "Conservatives here too have made their feelings clear. "Cherie Booth has always regarded herself as having an independent career. She has continued to practise as a major human rights
The head of Lloyd's of London, the insurance market, has criticised Britain's financial watchdog, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). In a speech on Monday, Mr Prettejohn urged the FSA to force brokers to disclose the size of their commissions. "The FSA should change, and change now" said Mr Prettejohn, who wants it to move from "disclosure on request" to mandatory disclosure. The call came in a speech on improving the London insurance market. "The FSA should not bide their time and 'wait and see'. They should seize the moment," Mr Prettejohn, Lloyd's chief executive said. The FSA took over regulation of the general insurance sector in January, but it sidestepped calls to require brokers to disclose the commissions they earn from insurers to their clients. Last week, the City watchdog gave brokers and insurers guidance on managing conflicts of interest. Brokers must give information on their commissions if, and only if, their customers request it, the FSA said. In the US, lack of transparency about brokers' commissions has led to problems. The world's biggest insurance broker Marsh & McLennan said last week it would pay $850m to settle charges, raised by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer in October, that it sought to rig bids in conjunction with insurers. The probe centred around so-called contingent commissions, whereby brokers were rewarded according to how much business they brought to an insurer, an arrangement that did not always benefit brokers' customers. All of the insurance business written in the Lloyd's market is
Celtic brushed aside Clyde to secure their place in the Scottish Cup semi-final, but only after a nervy and testing first half. The home side's Craig Bryson had a goal chopped off before Stan Varga headed Celtic into the lead. Alan Thompson scored from the penalty spot at the start of the second half after Shaun Maloney had been fouled. Stilian Petrov slid in a third, Varga tapped in his second and Craig Bellamy completed the rout with a fine drive. Bryn Halliwell was the busier keeper early on, saving from Bellamy, Chris Sutton and Juninho. Clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremendous strike from Bryson, but the referee had already blown for a foul by Petrov. From the resulting free kick, Darren Sheridan curled the ball round the Celtic wall only for the post to deny him. Back at the other end, Halliwell did well to come off his line and block Bellamy's effort to lift the ball over him. The keeper misjudged a corner that Stephane Henchoz headed wide, but a similar scenario five minutes before the break led to the opening goal. The ball was delivered from the left and Halliwell was left floundering as Varga glanced the ball into the net. Maloney replaced the injured Sutton at half time and he marked his first competitive appearance after a year out injured by helping his side take a two-goal lead just after the break. The young striker fired a free kick straight
The controversial sell-off of a Ukrainian steel mill to a relative of the former president was illegal, a court has ruled. The mill, Krivorizhstal, was sold in June 2004 for $800m (£424m) - well below other offers. President Viktor Yushchenko, elected in December, is planning to revisit many of Ukraine's recent privatisations. Krivorizhstal is one of dozens of firms which he says were sold cheaply to friends of the previous administration. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said as many as 3,000 firms could be included on the list of firms whose sale was being reviewed. Mr Yushchenko had previously said the list would be limited to 30-40 enterprises. More than 90,000 businesses in all, from massive corporations to tiny shopfronts, have been sold off since 1992, as the command economy built up when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union was dismantled. Analysts have suggested that the government needs to avoid the impression of an open-ended list, so as to preserve investor confidence. Thursday's ruling by a district court in Perchesk overturned a previous decision in a lower court permitting the sale. The consortium which won the auction for the mill was created by Viktor Pinchuk, son-in-law of former-President Leonid Kuchma, and Rinat Akhmetov, the country's richest man. The next step is for the supreme court to annul the sale altogether, opening the way for Krivorizhstal to be resold. Mr Yushchenko has suggested a fair valuation could be as much as $3bn. One of the foreign bidders who lost
An Iranian weblogger has been jailed for 14 years on charges of spying and aiding foreign counter-revolutionaries. Arash Sigarchi was arrested last month after using his blog to criticise the arrest of other online journalists. Mr Sigarchi, who also edits a newspaper in northern Iran, was sentenced by a revolutionary court in the Gilan area. His sentence, criticised by human rights watchdog Reporters Without Borders, comes a day after an online "day of action" to secure his release. Iranian authorities have recently clamped down on the growing popularity of weblogs, restricting access to major blogging sites from within Iran. A second Iranian blogger, Motjaba Saminejad, who also used his website to report on bloggers' arrests, is still being held. A spokesman for Reporters Without Borders, which tracks press freedom across the globe, described Mr Sigarchi's sentence as "harsh" and called on Iranian President Mohammed Khatami to work to secure his immediate release. "The authorities are trying to make an example of him," the organisation said in a statement. "By handing down this harsh sentence against a weblogger, their aim is to dissuade journalists and internet-users from expressing themselves online or contacting foreign media." In the days before his arrest Mr Sigarchi gave interviews to the BBC Persian Service and the US-funded Radio Farda. Iranian authorities have arrested about 20 online journalists during the current crackdown. They accused Mr Sigarchi of a string of crimes against Iranian state, including espionage, insulting the founder of Iran's Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomenei, and
Prices of homes in the UK rose a seasonally adjusted 0.5% in February, says the Nationwide building society. The figure means the annual rate of increase in the UK is down to 10.2%, the lowest rate since June 2001. The annual rate has halved since August last year, as interest rises have cooled the housing market. At the same time, the number of mortgage approvals fell in January to a near 10-year low, official Bank of England figures have shown. Nationwide said that in January house prices went up by 0.4% on the month and by 12.6% on a year earlier. "We are not seeing the market collapsing in the way some had feared," said Nationwide economist Alex Bannister. There have been a number of warnings that the UK housing market may be heading for a downturn after four years of strong growth to 2004. In November, Barclays, which owns former building society the Woolwich, forecast an 8% fall in property prices in 2005, followed by further declines in 2006 and 2007. And last summer, economists at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) warned house prices were overvalued and could fall by between 10% and 15% by 2009. The price of an average UK property now stands at £152,879. Homeowners now expect house prices to rise by 1% over the next six months, Mr Bannister said. He said if the growth continued at this level then the Bank of England may increase interest rates from their current 4.75%. "I think the key is what
Germany coach Jurgen Klinsmann has warned goalkeeper Jens Lehmann he may have to quit Arsenal to keep his World Cup dreams alive. Lehmann is understudy to Oliver Kahn in the German squad, but has lost his place to Manuel Alumnia at Highbury. Klinsmann said: "It will be difficult for any of our players if he is not a first-choice at his club. "If Jens is not Arsenal's number one keeper, that is a problem for me. He must be playing regularly." Lehmann is desperate to keep his place in the Germany squad when the country hosts the World Cup in 2006. Klinsmann added: "If he is not playing regularly he cannot be Germany's number one keeper, or even number two keeper. "The situation for Jens is that he is currently the number two keeper at Arsenal. This could be critical if it remains the same during next season."
UK mortgage lending showed a "post-Christmas lull" in January, indicating a slowing housing market, lenders have said. Both the Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) and Building Society Association (BSA) said lending was down sharply. The CML said gross mortgage lending stood at £17.9bn, compared with £21.8bn in January last year. The BSA said mortgage approvals - loans approved but not yet made - were £2bn, down from £2.6bn in January 2004. At the same time, the British Bankers' Association (BBA) said lending was "weaker". Overall, the BBA said mortgage lending rose by £4bn in January, a far smaller increase than the £5.1bn seen in December. This was a return to the "weaker pattern" of lending seen in the last months of 2004, the BBA added. However, it is the year-on-year lending comparisons which are the most striking. The CML said lending for house purchases and gross mortgage lending were 29% and 18% lower year-on-year respectively. "These figures show beyond doubt the recent slowdown in the housing market," Peter Williams, CML deputy director, said.
The European Central Bank has left its key interest rate unchanged at 2% for the 19th month in succession. Borrowing costs have remained on hold amid concerns about the strength of economic growth in the 12 nations sharing the euro, analysts said. Despite signs of pick-up, labour markets and consumer demand remain sluggish, while firms are eyeing cost cutting measures such as redundancies. High oil prices, meanwhile, have put upward pressure on the inflation rate. Surveys of economists have shown that the majority expect borrowing costs to stay at 2% in coming months, with an increase of a quarter of a percentage point predicted some time in the second half of the year. If anything, there may be greater calls for an interest rate cut, especially with the euro continuing to strengthen against the dollar. "The euro land economy is still struggling with this recovery," said economist Dirk Schumacher. The ECB "may sound rather hawkish but once the data allows them to cut again, they will." Data coming out of Germany on Thursday underlined the problems facing European policy makers. While Germany's economy expanded by 1.7% in 2004, growth was driven by export sales and lost some of its momentum in the last three months of the year. The strength of the euro is threatening to dampen that foreign demand in 2005, and domestic consumption currently is not strong enough to take up the slack. Inflation in the eurozone, however, is estimated at about 2.3% in December, above ECB guidelines
A group of MPs and peers has called for a tightening of regulations controlling betting on sport. The Parliamentary Group on Betting and Gaming held a substantial inquiry into betting last year. It followed fears that a massive increase in betting on sport, such as that done using the internet and mobile phones, has led to more cheating. The all-party group recommended 15 ways to protect punters and improve the integrity of sports betting. They include a proposal for raising the maximum jail sentence for gambling cheats above the current two years. Lord Condon, head of the International Cricket Council's anti-corruption unit, who originally made the call for longer prison sentences, said the two-year penalty was "derisory". "You could get a bigger sentence for failing to pay your hotel bill criminally than you could for corruption in major sports. "Symbolically, a higher penalty, perhaps as the Bill passes through the two Houses, might be appropriate." The report recommended the governing bodies of sports have a say in the type of bets offered to punters, and for bookmakers to set up "audit trails" - something the new betting exchanges already do - to allow suspicious betting patterns to be traced. Lord Faulkner of Worcester, who chaired the inquiry, said: "Whilst we accept that the greater part of sports betting is neither corrupt nor unfair to punters, the evidence convinces us that the growth of betting exchanges - because of the facility they provide to bet against a result - has increased
England tight-head prop Phil Vickery has been ruled out of the rest of the 2005 RBS Six Nations after breaking a bone in his right forearm. Vickery was injured as his club side, Gloucester, beat Bath 17-16 in the West country derby on Saturday. He could be joined on the sidelines by Bath centre Olly Barkley, who sat out the derby due to a leg injury. Barkley will have a scan on Sunday and might miss England's trip to Six Nations leaders Ireland next weekend. The news is just the latest blow for coach Andy Robinson, who has seen his side lose their opening two matches in the 2005 Six Nations. Robinson is already without World Cup winners Jonny Wilkinson, Will Greenwood, Mike Tindall, Richard Hill and Trevor Woodman through injury. Vickery has broken the radius, a large bone in his forearm. He only returned to the England side last weekend after a long-term back injury, which was followed by a fractured eye socket. And the Gloucester prop was only recalled after Leicester tight-head Julian White suffered a neck injury which has already seen him ruled out of the Ireland game. Bath prop Matt Stevens is the only remaining tight-head in England's training squad and could be involved against Ireland. But he has to play second fiddle at club level to Duncan Bell, who excelled for England A against France and may now be called into the squad. The extent of Barkley's injury is not yet clear but Bath boss
Wales hooker Mefin Davies is likely to stay with English side Gloucester despite reported interest from the Neath-Swansea Ospreys. BBC Wales understands the Ospreys are interested in the 32-year-old, but that he would prefer to stay where he is. Davies, one of the stars of Saturday's RBS Six Nations win over England, is only on a year contract at Kingsholm. But the hooker has proved his worth to the Zurich Premiership side and is likely to get a new deal next season. The summer demise of the Celtic Warriors region left Davies in the cold and forced him to take a semi-professional contract with Neath RFC. Although he got match time with the Ospreys at the request of the Wales management, he admitted before his move to Gloucester that he was angry with the way he was treated. "The WRU didn't give me any help off the field, it was very disappointing," Davies said at the time. "It was a hard time throughout the summer, then deciding whether to accept an offer from Stade Francais which would have ended my Wales career."
Spurs boss Martin Jol said his team were "robbed" at Manchester United after Pedro Mendes' shot clearly crossed the line but was not given. "The referee is already wearing an earpiece so why can't we just stop the game and get the decision right," said Jol after the 0-0 draw. "But at the end of the day it's so obvious that Pedro's shot was over the line it's incredible. "We feel robbed but it's difficult for the linesman and referee to see it." Mendes shot from 50 yards and United goalkeeper Roy Carroll spilled the ball into his own net before hooking it clear. Jol added: "We are not talking about the ball being a couple of centimetres or an inch or two over the line, it was a metre inside the goal. "What really annoys me is that we are here in 2005, watching something on a TV monitor within two seconds of the incident occurring and the referee isn't told about it. "We didn't play particularly well but I am pleased - even now - with a point, although we should have had three." Mendes could not believe the 'goal' was not given after seeing a replay. He said: "My reaction on the pitch was to celebrate. "It was a very nice goal, it was clearly over the line - I've never seen one so over the line and not given in my career. "It's really, really over. What can you do but laugh about it? It's a
One in 10 adult Americans - equivalent to 22 million people - owns an MP3 player, according to a survey. A study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project found that MP3 players are the gadget of choice among affluent young Americans. The survey did not interview teenagers but it is likely that millions of under-18s also have MP3 players. The American love affair with digital music players has been made possible as more and more homes get broadband. Of the 22 million Americans who own MP3 players, 59% are men compared to 41% of women. Those on high income - judged to be $75,000 (£39,000) or above - are four times more likely to have players than those earning less than $30, 000 ( £15,000). Broadband access plays a big part in ownership too. Almost a quarter of those with broadband at home have players, compared to 9% of those who have dial-up access. MP3 players are still the gadget of choice for younger adults. Almost one in five US citizens aged under 30 have one. This compares to 14% of those aged 30-39 and 14% of those aged 40-48. The influence of children also plays a part. Sixteen percent of parents living with children under 18 have digital players compared to 9% of those who don't. The ease of use and growth of music available on the net are the main factors for the upsurge in ownership, the survey found. People are beginning to use them as
By early 2005 the net could have two new domain names. The .post and .travel net domains have been given preliminary approval by the net's administrative body. The names are just two of a total of 10 proposed domains that are being considered by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, Icann. The other proposed names include a domain for pornography, Asia, mobile phones, an anti-spam domain and one for the Catalan language and culture. The .post domain is backed by the Universal Postal Union that wants to use it as the online marker for every type of postal service and to help co-ordinate the e-commerce efforts of national post offices. The .travel domain would be used by hotels, travel firms, airlines, tourism offices and would help such organisations distinguish themselves online. It is backed by a New York-based trade group called The Travel Partnership. Icann said its early decision on the two domains was in response to the detailed technical and commercial information the organisations behind the names had submitted. Despite this initial approval, Icann cautioned that there was no guarantee that the domains would actually go into service. At the same time Icann is considering proposals for another eight domains. One that may not win approval is a proposal to set up a .xxx domain for pornographic websites. A similar proposal has been made many times in the past. But Icann has been reluctant to approve it because of the difficulty of making pornographers sign up and
Ukraine is preparing what could be a wholesale review of the privatisation of thousands of businesses by the previous administration. The new President, Viktor Yushchenko, has said a "limited" list of companies is being drawn up. But on Wednesday Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said the government was planning to renationalise 3,000 firms. The government says many privatised firms were sold to allies of the last administration at rock-bottom prices. More than 90,000 businesses in all, from massive corporations to tiny shopfronts, have been sold off since 1992, as the command economy built up when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union was dismantled. Ms Tymoshenko said prosecutors had drawn up a list of more than 3,000 businesses which were to be reviewed. "We will return to the state that which was illegally put into private hands." A day earlier, Mr Yushchenko - keen to reassure potential investors - had said only 30 to 40 top firms would be targeted. The list "will be limited and final, and will not be extended after its completion", he said. An open-ended list could further damage outside investors' fragile faith in Ukraine, said Stuart Hensel of the Economist Intelligence Unit. But the government seemed keen not to make the review look like the kind of wholesale renationalisation which many fear in Russia, Mr Hensel said. As a result, it was planning to resell rather than keep firms in state hands. "They're aware of the need not to scare investors, and to be careful of
Profits at Chinese computer firm Lenovo have stood still amid slowing demand at home and stiffening competition. The firm is in the international spotlight after last year signing a deal to buy the PC division of personal computer pioneer IBM. Lenovo's profit for the three months to December was HK$327m (US$42m; £22m), less than 1% up on the year before. Chinese PC sales have risen by a fifth in each of the past two years, but are now growing more slowly. The company is still by far the biggest player in China, with more than a quarter of the market. But Western firms such as Dell and Hewlett-Packard are also mounting a more solid fight for market share in China, and Lenovo's sales were down 3.7% by revenue to HK$6.31bn. If the $1.75bn agreement Lenovo signed with IBM on 8 December goes through, it will mark the end of an era. IBM pioneered the desktop PC market in the early 1980s, although strategic mis-steps helped lose it its early dominance. In any case, margins in PC market are now wafer thin, and profits have been hard to come by for most vendors except direct-sales giant Dell. But investors have been less than impressed with Lenovo's move, designed to take it out of China and further onto the world stage. Its shares are down 20% since the announcement two months ago, largely because of the unprofitability of the unit it is buying. There have been rumours that the deal could be
The UK's biggest civil service union is to ballot its 290,000 members on strikes in protest at government plans to extend their pension age to 65. The Public and Commercial Services Union will co-ordinate any action with up to six other public sector unions. Unions have already earmarked 23 March for a one-day strike which could involve up to 1.4 million UK workers. The government says unions will be consulted before any changes are made to the pension system. PCS leader Mark Serwotka warned there could be further walkouts unless there was a government rethink. "For a government that lectures everyone on choice - choice on public service, choice on this and choice on that - isn't it ironic that they're saying to public sector workers there is no choice," he said. "If you want the pension you were promised when you started you must work for an extra five years - that is working until people drop. "In the 20th century, it's completely unacceptable." BBC correspondent Stephen Cape said the combined unions represented "a formidable force" which could embarrass the government in the run-up to the General Election. A stoppage involving civil servants, in particular, could seriously disrupt or close government departments, agencies and museums, he said. Opposition to raising the retirement age is "one thing all the unions are agreed on", our correspondent added. Unison's 800,000 workers, the Transport and General Workers' Union's 70,000 and Amicus' 20,000 are among those being balloted about a 23 March walkout. Deputy
Walt Disney has settled charges from US federal regulators that it failed to disclose how family members of directors were employed by the company. The media giant was not fined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, but has agreed to refrain from any future violations of securities law. Disney failed to tell investors that between 1999 and 2001 it employed three adult children of three then directors. The firm has neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing in the settlement. The three Disney directors in question in the central matter of the SEC's investigation - Reveta Bowers, Stanley Gold and Raymond Watson - have all since left the company, with Ms Bowers and Mr Watson both retiring, and Mr Gold quitting in 2003. Their children were paid between $60,000 (£30,800) and $150,000 a year, with shareholders not being informed. The SEC also found that Disney did not disclose that a 50% Disney-owned subsidiary company - Lifetime - employed the wife of current Disney director John Bryson, and that she earned more than $1m a year. Louise Bryson remains with Lifetime. Disney also failed to disclose payments to Air Shamrock, an airline owned by Mr Gold and fellow former Disney directors Roy Disney. Finally, Disney also did not reveal that it provided more than $200,000 annually for office space, secretarial services, and a leased car and driver to former director Thomas Murphy. "Shareholders have a significant interest in information regarding relationships between the company and its directors," said SEC deputy enforcement director Linda
Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has ordered captain Steven Gerrard not to play down their Champions League ambitions and be more positive. Gerrard told the BBC Liverpool were unlikely to win the trophy this year. Benitez responded: "I spoke to Steven and said to him that in future it's better to think we can win the Champions League. Why not?" He said: "We need winners here and everyone thinking only of winning. I always want to win." Benitez added: "When we lose I only think of solutions. If you only think about winning the next game, you don't know what the draw will be. "If we can win the next game, maybe we will draw a side that isn't so strong, or a side with injuries or suspensions." Benitez is hoping to win his first trophy since arriving at Liverpool from Valencia when they play Chelsea in the Carling Cup on Sunday in Cardiff.
Oil prices recovered in Asian trade on Tuesday, after falling in New York on milder winter weather across the US. With winter temperatures staying relatively high in the northern US, a barrel of light crude ended Monday down $1.33 to $42.12. However crude prices have rebounded in Asia, rising to $42.30 a barrel for February delivery. In London, trading of Brent crude was suspended for a public holiday, but the price fell to $39.20 in the Far East. With milder temperatures expected to continue in the northern parts of the US over the next few days at least, analysts have said the price of oil may fall further - even if the decline was only temporary. "Weather has been the Achilles' heel of this market," said ABN AMRO analyst John Brady. "But it is winter in the northeast. Eventually we'll get another cold blast." Despite a fall of more than $12 a barrel from the record highs reached in late October, the price of crude oil remains almost 30% higher than year-ago levels. Prices rose last week after militant attacks in Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia, briefly renewed fears that the supply chain might be broken in the world's leading crude exporter. "The market was panicked but fears essentially evaporated... since there was no follow-up," said Deborah White, senior economist for energy at SG Securities in Paris.
Eurosceptic party UKIP have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed. John Houston, 54, was due to stand in the East Kilbride seat in Lanarkshire at the next election. But he was suspended after his reported views, including the return of the British Empire, were sent to two Scottish newspapers. UKIP spokesman Mark Croucher said those who selected Mr Houston knew nothing of his views. The episode comes at a difficult time for UKIP, soon after the high-profile departure of MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk. Mr Houston is alleged to have said that the organs of the criminally insane should be "made available to law-abiding members of the community" and proposed the legalisation of drugs and the sex trade. The document reportedly said: "We're looking for the resurrection of the British Empire. "The problems for the human race - environmental and others - can only be dealt with on a global scale, and that calls for a radical alliance of the English-speaking nations, which they are uniquely able to do." Mr Croucher said the main issue would be that Mr Houston's reported views had been presented as UKIP policy, which they were not. He said they might have been submissions to a committee working on the party's manifesto, but would not have been matched to Mr Houston when he was standing to become a candidate. He told BBC News: "He appears to have said these things. We have suspended him as a member and as a candidate.
Jonny Wilkinson looks set to miss the whole of the 2005 RBS Six Nations. England's World Cup-winning fly-half said last week he was hoping to recover from his latest injury in time to play some role in the championship. But Rob Andrew, coach of Wilkinson's club side Newcastle, said that with only two games left to play Wilkinson was unlikely to be fit in time. "It would be irresponsible to put him straight into a Test match," Andrew told the Times. Wilkinson is recovering from a knee injury which followed long-term neck and arm injuries. He has not played for England since the World Cup final in November 2003, since when the stuttering world champions have lost nine of their 14 matches. Wilkinson is aiming to make his third start to the season in the Zurich Premiership match against Harlequins on 13 March. That game is the day after England play Italy in the Six Nations and six days before their final match of the championship against Scotland. "We are hoping Jonny will be ready in a fortnight, but it is touch and go," said Andrew. "His recovery is going very well and the key now is how he is reintroduced to playing and with it goal-kicking. "He will probably have to come off the bench to start and it would be ridiculous and irresponsible to put him straight back into a Test match. "We can't afford to get it wrong with a knee injury. We are in touch with
Former WorldCom boss Bernie Ebbers was directly involved in the $11bn financial fraud at the firm, his closest associate has told a US court. Giving evidence in the criminal trial of Mr Ebbers, ex-finance chief Scott Sullivan implicated his colleague in the accounting scandal at the firm. Mr Sullivan, WorldCom's former number two, is the government's chief witness in its case against Mr Ebbers. Mr Ebbers has denied multiple charges of conspiracy and fraud. Senior WorldCom executives are accused of orchestrating a huge fraud at the former telecoms company in which they exaggerated revenues and hid the cost of expenses. The firm was forced into bankruptcy, the largest in US history. Mr Sullivan, 42, pleaded guilty to fraud last year and agreed to assist the government with its case against Mr Ebbers. Prosecutors have alleged that Mr Ebbers, 63, directed Mr Sullivan to hide the true state of the company's finances by providing false information to the firm's accountants. Mr Ebbers has denied all the charges, saying he was unaware of the fraud. His lawyers claim that their client was unfamiliar with detailed accounting practices and left that side of the business to Mr Sullivan. However, on Monday Mr Sullivan named Mr Ebbers as one of five executives who participated in the accounting fraud. "He [Ebbers] has got a hands-on grasp of financial information," Mr Sullivan told a New York court. On his first day of questioning, Mr Sullivan admitted to falsifying the company's financial statements. "We did not disclose
Former Northern Ireland minister Sir Nicholas Scott has died at a London hospice, his family has announced. The former Conservative MP for Kensington and Chelsea, died after a long illness diagnosed as Alzheimer's. The 71-year-old served in Northern Ireland from 1981 to 1987 during the premiership of Margaret Thatcher. As a Northern Ireland minister he dealt with education and later security where he rode out the mass IRA escape from the Maze in 1983. In education, he encountered criticism over school closures and the future of the Catholic training colleges. He also merged the New University of Ulster and the Ulster Polytechnic to create the University of Ulster. Sir Nicholas was a strong defender of the Anglo-Irish Agreement and was held in esteem in Dublin government and SDLP circles. But he experienced hostility from unionists some of whom dubbed him "Minister of Discord". After leaving Northern Ireland in a reshuffle, he became a UK disability minister. Sir Nicholas was replaced as the member for Kensington and Chelsea by the flamboyant Alan Clark, after being deselected by his constituency in December 1996. His deselection followed a series of scandals including being found slumped in the street by police during the Tory Party conference in Bournemouth and taken back to his hotel. Sir Nicholas claimed strong painkillers he was taking for a back problem had reacted badly with a small amount of alcohol. After his sacking, he bitterly said that despite the support of Cabinet ministers and Tory backbenchers, the Eurosceptics in
Gordon Brown has made an appeal for unity after reports claimed Mr Blair went back on a pledge to stand down before the next general election. The chancellor would not comment on the reports, but insisted he would not be "diverted or distracted" from tackling the challenges faced by the country. His only "motivation" was to ensure Labour was re-elected, he insisted. Mr Blair earlier dismissed the claim he had reneged on a promise to stand aside for Gordon Brown as old news. According to a new book, Brown's Britain by Sunday Telegraph journalist Robert Peston, Mr Blair went back on a pledge to make way for Mr Brown after Cabinet allies intervened in June 2004. In an interview with BBC One's Breakfast with Frost, Mr Blair said: "I've dealt with this six months ago. I said then you don't do deals over jobs like this - you don't. "What both of us are actually concentrating on are the issues that concern the country." In a separate interview with BBC political editor Andrew Marr, Mr Brown said: "It's very important that we all do what we can in a unified way to ensure the election of a Labour government. "I think it is very important to stress that that is the motivation that I have. "That is my purpose in politics, and that is what every day I seek to do. And I am not going to be diverted or distracted, nor is Tony Blair, by newspaper stories or books
The Labour Party received more than £5m in donations in the final quarter of 2004, new figures show. This is nearly half of the £11,724,929 received by 16 political parties listed by the Electoral Commission. The Conservatives were in second place with donations totalling £4,610,849, while the Liberal Democrats received just over £1m. The majority of Labour's donations came from affiliated trade unions. There were also large sums from individuals. Lord Drayson, whose company PowderJect won multi-million pound contracts to provide smallpox vaccine to the government after the 11 September terror attacks, gave £500,000 to the party just days before Christmas. This followed an earlier donation of the same amount earlier in 2004. He was made a lord by Tony Blair last year. Other significant donations came from retired millionaire businessman and philanthropist Sir Christopher Ondaatje who gave the party a sum of £500,000, and refrigerator magnate William Haughey OBE who gave £330,000. The totals for the fourth quarter were well up on the same period of 2003, as the parties built up their war chests for the general election campaign. The largest donation to the Conservatives was a bequest from Ruth Beardmore of nearly £400,000. The joint founder of merchant bank Hambro Magan gave £325,417. There were also donations topping £250,000 for the Conservatives from Scottish Business Groups Focus on Scotland and the Institute of International Research, the world's largest independent conference company. Also among the gifts to the Tories were 24 donations totalling £161,840 from Bearwood Corporate Services.
Rising fuel and materials costs are hitting confidence among the UK's small manufacturers despite a rise in output, business lobby group the CBI says. A CBI quarterly survey found output had risen by the fastest rate in seven years but many firms were seeing the benefits offset by increasing expenses. The CBI also found spending on innovation, training and retraining is forecast to go up over the next year. However, firms continue to scale back investment in buildings and machinery. The CBI said companies are looking to the government to lessen the regulatory load and are hoping interest rates will be kept on hold. "Smaller manufacturers are facing an uphill struggle," said Hugh Morgan Williams, chair of the CBI's SME Council. "The manufacturing sector needs a period of long-term stability in the economy." The CBI found some firms managed to increase prices for the first time in nine years - but many said increases failed to keep up the rise in costs. Of the companies surveyed, 30% saw orders rise and 27% saw them fall. The positive balance of plus 3 compared with minus 10 in the previous survey. When firms were questioned on output volume, the survey returned a balance of plus 8 - the highest rate of increase for seven years - and rose to plus 11 when looking ahead to the next three months.
Aid workers trying to house, feed and clothe millions of homeless refugees in the Sudanese region of Darfur are getting a helping hand from advanced mapping technology. A European consortium of companies and university groups known as Respond is working to provide accurate and up to date maps. The aim is to overcome some of the huge logistical challenges in getting supplies to where they are needed. Respond is using satellite imagery to produce accurate maps that can be used in the field rapidly. "Respond has produced very detailed maps for example for the road networks, for the rivers and for the villages, to more large-scale maps useful for very general planning purposes," said Einar Bjorgo from Unosat, the UN satellite mapping organisation that is part of the Respond consortium. The group uses satellites from Nasa, the European Space Agency and the Disaster Monitoring Constellation. The satellite data is transmitted to ground stations. From there, the information makes its way to Respond organisations that specialise in interpreting such data. "You have to convert the data into images, then the interpreter has to convert all this into crisis, damage, or situation maps," said Stefan Voigt, who works in the remote sensing department of one of those organisations, the German Aerospace Centre. This kind of detailed analysis usually takes a couple of months but Respond gets it done in about 12 hours. "Our users are usually not so much familiar with reading satellite imagery, reading satellite maps, so it's our task to
Ford, the US car company, reported higher fourth quarter and full-year profits on Thursday boosted by a buoyant period for its car loans unit. Net income for 2004 was $3.5bn (£1.87bn) - up nearly $3bn from 2003 - while turnover rose $7.2bn to $170.8bn. In the fourth quarter alone Ford reported net income of $104m, compared with a loss of $793m a year ago. But its auto unit made a loss. Fourth quarter turnover was $44.7bn, compared to $45.9bn a year ago. Though car and truck loan profits saved the day, Ford's auto unit made a pre-tax loss of $470m in the fourth quarter (compared to a profit of £13m in the year-ago period) and its US sales dipped 3.8%. Yesterday General Motor's results also showed its finance unit was a strong contributor to profits. However, Ford is working hard to revitalise its product portfolio, unveiling the Fusion and Zephyr models at the International Motor Show in Detroit. It also brought out a number of new models in the second half of 2004. "In 2004, our company gained momentum, delivering...more new products, and more innovative breakthroughs, such as the Escape Hybrid, the industry's first full-hybrid sport utility vehicle," said chairman and chief executive officer Bill Ford." "We also confronted operating challenges with our Jaguar brand and high industry marketing costs," he added. But Ford declined to provide guidance for first quarter 2005. It will do so at a presentation in New York on 26 January. In addition, the company said
South Korea's Hyundai Motor has announced that it plans to build a second plant in India to meet the country's growing demand for cars. The company didn't give details of its investment but it said the new plant would produce 150,000 cars a year. This will boost the annual production capacity of the company - India's second-largest car manufacturer - to 400,000 units. Hyundai expects its sales in India to grow 16% to 250,000 in 2005. By 2010, it expects to nearly double sales to 400,000 cars. The new plant will be built close to the existing one in Chennai, in the southern province of Tamil Nadu. South Korea's top car maker estimates that the Indian market will grow 15% this year, to 920,000 vehicles, reaching 1.6 million vehicles by 2010. Demand in India has been driven by the poor state of public transport and the very low level of car ownership, analysts said. Figures show that currently only eight people per thousand are car owners. "We desperately need to expand our production in order to meet growing demand in the Indian auto market, which is growing over 12 percent every year, and to top our competitors," chairman Chung Mong-koo said in the statement. He said the company plans to use India as a base for exports to Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. The company - which controls half of the South Korean's market - aims to become a global top five auto maker by 2010.
Boeing is to supply Japan Airlines with up to 50 of its forthcoming 7E7 planes in a deal that could be worth as much as $6bn (£3.1bn) for the US giant. Japan Airlines has made a firm order for 30 of the aircraft, at $120m each, with the option to buy 20 more. Asia's biggest airline joins Japanese rival All Nippon as one of the first carriers to order the mid-size 7E7, which Boeing says is super-economical. Airbus this week announced the first pre-sale of its 7E7 rival - the A350. Boeing's great European competitor is to sell 10 of its forthcoming A350 to Spanish carrier Air Europe, which has the option to buy two more in a deal that could be worth more than $1.8bn. Both the 7E7 and the A350 are being designed to be as fuel-efficient as possible in the 200- to 300-seat sector, and each will be available in both short and long range versions. Japan Airlines said it had looked at both aircraft before choosing the 7E7, also known as the Dreamliner. "We chose the 7E7 after carefully considering both it and Airbus' aircraft," said a Japan Airlines spokesman. "The 7E7 fits better for what we needed and it could be delivered when we hoped to get it." Boeing continues to enjoy a dominance over Airbus in Japan, and Japanese companies are taking key roles in building the 7E7. The first 7E7s will be delivered to Japan Airlines in April 2008. Boeing has set itself
World 100m champion Kim Collins says suspended sprinter Dwain Chambers should be allowed to compete in the Olympics again. Chambers was banned for two years after testing positive for the anabolic steroid THG and his suspension runs out in November this year. But Collins says the British Olympic Association should reverse the decision to ban him from the Olympics for life. "It was too harsh," Collins told Radio Five Live. "They should reconsider." Chambers has been in America learning American football but has not ruled out a return to the track. Collins added: "He is a great guy and I have never had any problems with him. We are friends. "I would like to see Dwain come back and compete again. He is a good person. "Even though he made a mistake he understands what he did and should be given a chance once more."
Everton manager David Moyes will discipline striker James Beattie after all for his headbutt on Chelsea defender William Gallas. The Scot initially defended Beattie, whose dismissal put Everton on the back foot in a game they ultimately lost 1-0, saying Gallas overreacted. But he has had a rethink after looking over the video evidence again. He said: "I believe that I should set the record straight by conceding that the dismissal was right and correct." Moyes added: "My comments on Saturday came immediately after the final whistle and at a point when I had only had the opportunity to see one, very quick re-run of the incident." The club website also reported that Beattie, who seemed unrepentant after Saturday's match, insisting Gallas "would have stayed down a lot longer" if he had headbutted him, has now apologised. Moyes continued: "Although the incident was totally out of character - James has never even been suspended before in his career - his actions were unacceptable and had a detrimental effect on his team-mates. "James did issue a formal apology to myself, his team-mates and to the Everton supporters immediately after the game and that was the right thing to have done. He will now be subjected to the normal club discipline. "He is a competitive player but a fair player and I know how upset he is by what has happened. However, I must say that I do still believe the Chelsea player in question did go down too easily." Speaking immediately
Mark Philippoussis is almost certain to miss the Australian Open after suffering a groin injury during the Hopman Cup loss to the Netherlands. The 28-year-old suffered two tears to the adductor muscle and was unable to play in the deciding mixed doubles. He is now unlikely to be fit in time for the Australian Open which begins on 17 January in Melbourne. "He has to strengthen it enough to cope with repetitive days of tennis," said Hopman Cup doctor Hamish Osborne. "It would be very unlikely in my opinion for him to do a five-setter once, let alone two days in a row, inside two weeks. "The injury is more common in Australian Rules football, and a fit footballer would normally take three to four weeks to recover fully although Mark's injury is slightly different." The Australian has suffered a host of injury problems throughout his career but is still holding out slim hope that he can make the event. "It's something I'll have to go by feel. I'll start treatment as soon as possible and try to strengthen it without tearing it any more," he said. "What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. I know I can come back from this and that's all that matters. - Former world number two Tommy Haas is also a doubt for the Australian Open after picking up a thigh injury playing for Germany in the Hopman Cup. The 26-year-old had treatment on his left thigh while leading Argentine Guillermo Coria 7-5 2-2.
The explosion in consumer technology is to continue into 2005, delegates at the world's largest gadget show, in Las Vegas, have been told. The number of gadgets in the shops is predicted to grow by 11%, while devices which talk to each other will become increasingly important. "Everything is going digital," Kirsten Pfeifer from the Consumer Electronics Association, told the BBC News website. The Consumer Electronics Show (CES) featured the pick of 2005's products. "Consumers are controlling what they want and technologies like HDTVs [high-definition TVs], digital radio, and digital cameras will remain strong in 2005. "All the products on show really showed the breadth and depth of the industry." Despite showing diversity, some delegates attending complained that the showcase lacked as much "wow factor" as in previous years. The portable technologies on show also reflected one of the buzzwords of CES, which was the "time and place shifting" of multimedia content - being able to watch and listen to video and music anywhere, at any time. At the start of last year's CES, the CEA predicted there would be an average growth of 4% in 2004. That figure was surpassed with the rise in popularity of portable digital music players, personal video recorders and digital cameras. It was clear also that gadgets are becoming a lot more about lifestyle choice, with fashion and personalisation becoming increasingly key to the way gadgets are designed. Part of this has been the rise in spending power of the "generation X-ers" who have
Martina Hingis makes her return to competitve tennis after two years out of the game at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand, on Tuesday. She faces German Marlene Weingartner in the first round. "As a competitor and athlete, I always want to win. I hope my body will hold up," said Hingis. "You miss being out there in a Grand Slam final and not competing. It's a big difference between playing and commenting for TV. I miss it a lot." The former world number one was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles, and her last WTA event was in Filderstadt, Germany, in October 2002, when she lost to Elena Dementieva. Only last year she insisted that a comeback was unlikely, but speaking in Thaliand Hingis admitted: "I said that because I didn't know what would happen with my body." Her appearance will also benefit charities in the region and the Swiss star will donate her prize money.
Your child or grandchild may want the latest toy this Christmas, but how about giving them a present that will help their financial future? Gifts of the financial variety might have a longer lasting impact. It may encourage children to save or start a fund which could count towards university costs, for example. The government is trying to encourage saving at an early age, through its new Child Trust Fund. The first vouchers, worth £250 or £500 for low-income families, will be distributed from January. All children born after 1st September 2002 will be eligible. Parents will need to decide which financial institution will manage this gift in time for the start of the scheme in April 2005. Parents and relatives will be able to top up the fund with up to £1,200 a year, which will grow free of income and capital gains tax. As the Child Trust Fund will not be in force in time for Christmas, relatives could invest their gifts in a higher rate children's deposit account, and use this as a feeder fund. There are accounts designed to start children off in the savings habit and they often pay a higher rate of interest. Some of the best instant-access accounts currently available include the Ladybird account from the Saffron Walden Building Society, paying 5.35% for a minimum balance of £1 and the Alliance & Leicester FirstSaver which pays 5.25%, also starting at £1. Interest earned by children is subject to income tax. However, children, like
Singer Bruce Springsteen has inducted Irish rock band U2 into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, in New York. The lavish ceremony, celebrating the 50th anniversary of rock 'n' roll, also saw the induction of the Pretenders, Percy Sledge, the O'Jays and Buddy Guy. "This was a band that wanted to lay claim to this world and the next one, too," said Springsteen. Bono, The Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr, who formed U2 at school in 1977, begin a world tour on 28 March. Introducing the band, Springsteen mocked Bono as the man who "single-handedly pioneered the Irish mullet", poking fun at "one of the best and most endearingly messianic complexes in rock 'n' roll". But he also spoke of the group's enduring stature, adding that it was the only band of the last 20 years where he knew all four members' names. U2's contemporaries, the Pretenders, led by Chrissie Hynde - took to the stage to perform My City Was Gone with inductee Neil Young. "We are a tribute band," said Hynde, 53. "We're paying tribute to James Honeyman-Scott and Pete Farndon, without whom we would not have been here," she said, referring to the premature deaths of two of the band's guitarists from drug overdoses. Britain's Rod Stewart introduced Percy Sledge, citing his best-known hit When a Man loves a Woman as "one of the best performances I've ever heard". Justin Timberlake introduced soul group the O'Jays, a gospel-style quartet from Ohio, who performed a
Fifty new areas getting special help to fight anti-social behaviour in England and Wales will be named on Thursday. Ten areas have already had access to special prosecutors and local experts and the government is now expanding the crackdown to more towns and cities. Details of how many anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) were used in the last year are also being published. Labour sees nuisance behaviour as a key election issue but critics claim the record is at best patchy. A year ago, ministers launched their anti-social behaviour plan and Thursday's figures offer a progress check. They will say that in the past year more than 2,600 anti-social behaviour orders were issued by the courts - more than double the total used in the previous four years. Police have also closed 150 crack houses and issued more than 400 dispersal orders, breaking up groups of youths in public places. The 50 new pilot areas to get special attention will also receive extra government funding. Exeter and Cardiff are among cities who have voiced interest in being involved. Prime Minister Tony Blair is also expected to announce new measures to strengthen the use of Asbos and fixed penalty notices. There are still concerns that some areas of the country are not using the powers properly. He is expected to say that the new figures were heartening but he would not rest until similar action was taken in all areas of the country where it was needed. "We have not defeated this
A prescription cannabis drug made by UK biotech firm GW Pharmaceuticals is set to be approved in Canada. The drug is used to treat the central nervous system and alleviate the symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS). A few weeks ago, shares in GW Pharma lost a third of their value after UK regulators said they wanted more evidence about the drug's benefits. But now Canadian authorities have said the Sativex drug will be considered for approval. Approximately 50,000 people in Canada have been diagnosed with MS and 85,000 people are suffering from the condition in the UK. Many patients already smoke cannabis to relieve their symptoms. Now, GW Pharma's Sativex mouth spray could be legally available to MS sufferers in Canada within the next few months. This will be the first time a cannabis-based drug has been approved anywhere in the world, representing a landmark for GW Pharma and for patients with MS. Final approval in Canada should now be little more than a formality, analysts said, and the company expects full approval for Sativex early in 2005. "We are delighted to receive this qualifying notice from Health Canada and look forward to receiving regulatory approval for Sativex in Canada in the early part of 2005," said GW Pharma executive chairman Dr Geoffrey Guy. The UK government granted GW Pharma a licence to grow the cannabis plant for medical research purposes. Satifex consists of a cannabis extract containing tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, a cocktail that has also proved effective in treating
Council tax in Scotland is set to rise by an average of about 4% in the coming year, BBC Scotland has learned. Authorities will decide final figures on Thursday when projected increases will be more than twice the rate of inflation, which is currently 1.6%. The finance minister has urged councils to limit increases but they have warned that they will struggle to maintain services unless funding is increased. They say much additional government money is for new initiatives. Scottish Finance Minister, Tom McCabe MSP, said: "Last week in parliament I announced an additional £419m for core expenditure to local government in Scotland. "That's a 5.5% increase and sits against an inflation rate of 1.6%, so I think we have quite rightly said to councils this year that we would at the very least ask them to exercise restraint." Mr McCabe is also looking for local authorities to become more efficient and save money in coming years. He told BBC Radio Scotland's Sunday Live programme: "Here in Scotland we have 32 councils who all have their own individual collection systems for council tax, they have their own payroll systems and their own human resource systems. "We think there has to be opportunities there for rationalisation and using the money saved to reinvest in frontline services." The councils' umbrella organisation Cosla, which provided BBC Scotland with the indicative figures for next year, warned that councils would face a continuous struggle to maintain services. Mr McCabe has promised them about £8.1bn next
Leroy Lita took his goal tally to 13 for the season as his double earned City an LDV Vans Trophy win. The striker finished off Scott Murray cross from close range just seconds before half-time. Lita then made it 2-0 on 52 minutes, but Dons' substitute Serge Makofo then netted a great volley to make it 2-1. The visitors almost took the tie to extra time with a late 30-yard bullet from Richard Johnson which was well held by Steve Phillips. Phillips, Amankwaah, Coles, Hill, Fortune, Murray (Anyinsah 59), Doherty (Harley 45), Dinning, Bell, Lita (Cotterill 72), Gillespie. Subs Not Used: Orr, Brown. Hill. Lita 45, 52. Bevan, Oyedele, Ntimban-Zeh, Crooks, Puncheon, Kamara (Makofo 64), Chorley, Herve (McKoy 45), Tapp (Johnson 45), Mackie, Pacquette. Subs Not Used: Martin, Palmer. Pacquette, Chorley, Johnson, McKoy. Makofo 66. 3,367 J Ross (Essex).
Fifth seed Robin Soderling took the Milan Indoors title with a dramatic win over Radek Stepanek in Sunday's final. The 20-year-old Swede edged the final set tie-break for a 6-3 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-5) victory and his second tour title after winning in Lyon last year. "I'm delighted to have won against such a good opponent in a tournament of this importance," said Soderling. "I was really on form, my service was good and I really liked playing on the synthetic surface." Soderling, the world number 37, shrugged off a nervous start to take the opening set on his first set point. A change in approach from fourth seed Stepanek in the second set paid dividends as he took it on a tie-break, but Soderling's superior power proved too much in the third.
The Labour Party will hold its 2006 autumn conference in Manchester and not Blackpool, it has been confirmed. The much trailed decision was ratified by Labour's ruling National Executive Committee in a break with the traditional choice of a seaside venue. It will be the first time since 1917 that the party has chosen Manchester to host the annual event. Blackpool will get the much smaller February spring conference instead in what will be seen as a placatory move. For years the main political parties have rotated between Blackpool, Bournemouth and Brighton. And the news the much larger annual conference is not to gather in Blackpool will be seen as a blow in the coastal resort. In 1998 the party said it would not return to Blackpool but did so in 2002. The following year Bournemouth hosted the event before the party signed a two year deal for Brighton to host the autumn conference. Colin Asplin, Blackpool Hotel Association said: "We have tried very hard to make sure they come back to Blackpool. "Obviously we have failed in that. I just hope Manchester can handle the crowds. "It amazes me that the Labour Party, which is a working class party, doesn't want to come to the main working class resort in the country." The exact cost to Blackpool in terms of lost revenue for hotel accommodation is not yet known but it is thought that block bookings will be taken at the major Manchester hotels after the official announcement.
France's economic growth accelerated in the last three months of 2004, driven by consumer spending, a report shows. Gross domestic product (GDP) rose by 0.8% in the fourth quarter compared with the previous three month period, the statistical office INSEE said. That expansion pushed annual growth to 2.3%, the fastest rate in two years. Consumer spending was up by 1.2% in the fourth quarter, and there also was a rebound in business investment that gave the recovery an extra shove. Analysts warned that France still was facing challenges and was unlikely to keep expanding at its current pace. "France still has a strong economic growth," said Marc Toutai, an economist at Natexis Banques Populaires. "But, if we check the figures in detail, there's a problem." "Consumer spending is still high. But French households have spent their savings to consume. "France can't sustain a high growth rate without an improvement in the job market. There's too much of a gap between growth and employment." Unemployment levels are currently stuck at about 10%, and is proving difficult to bring down despite government efforts. Another worry is that demand in Germany and Italy, two of France's main trading partners, is sluggish. Despite the concerns, analysts pointed out that France was outperforming the majority of its European counterparts and that its economy was looking more robust than in previous years. As well as strong domestic demand, exports climbed by 1.3% in the fourth quarter - the biggest increase in foreign sales for a year.
David Blunkett has apologised to MPs after the Home Office announced "prematurely" via press release a review of murder laws. The home secretary confirmed the review was to get under way in the wake of a Law Commission report which branded the current murder law as "a mess". He said the review would look at partial defences to murder, including provocation and at mandatory sentences. The Home Office has already said the review will begin next year. On Wednesday, a Home Office spokeswoman said the terms of reference for the review had not been established but it was likely to include only England and Wales. News of the review was released because it was thought Mr Blunkett would make the official announcement in a Commons debate on Wednesday. But the announcement never came, with the home secretary saying the debate had never reached that stage. Amid opposition anger, Mr Blunkett had to answer an emergency question in Parliament on Thursday. He said he had taken steps to ensure the incident was not repeated. Shadow home secretary David Davis welcomed his "gracious apology" and the review itself. But he argued the minister should have volunteered a formal statement instead of having to be "dragged" to face MPs. In its report, the Law Commission said it had found wide support among criminal justice professionals for an end to the mandatory life sentence for murder. The panel suggested different kinds of murders could be "graded" to recognise the seriousness of the offence. But
Joint assistant boss Stuart Pearce has admitted he would like to succeed Kevin Keegan as manager at Manchester City. Keegan has decided to step down as City manager when his contract comes to an end in 18 months. "You don't have to be Einstein to realise there will be a manager's job available at a really good club," Pearce told BBC GMR. "I will certainly be applying for it, although whether the board deem me good enough to take it, I do not know." Pearce initially joined City as a player under Keegan in 2001 before becoming part of the coaching staff. He was promoted to joint assistant-manager following the departure of Arthur Cox last summer. The former England defender had a year as player-boss with Nottingham Forest eight seasons ago but has made no secret of his desire to have another crack at the job. He was linked with the manager's job at Oldham and Keegan has stated he would not get in the way if Pearce wanted to leave. But it now appears Pearce is keen to wait for his chance at City. He added: "By that time, I will have been here for five years so at least they will have had a good look at me and they are aware of my feelings with regard to being Kevin's successor. "Obviously, the issue is out of my hands but it is a fantastic job for anybody - I just hope it will be me."
The Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Tessa Jowell, has hit out at critics of the Gambling Bill. She told the Guardian newspaper there would be no "Las Vegas-style" super-casinos, as rumoured in the press. Meanwhile Labour backbencher Stephen Pound labelled casino-related regeneration schemes "a pile of pants". The MP for Ealing North claimed the legislation would encourage a mafia-like culture of vice and corruption, in an interview on BBC Radio 4. "You look at some of the people who are involved...they aren't in there to regenerate Blackpool. They are in it to fill their boots," Mr Pound told the Today programme. "I just really think that we have made a terrible mistake here. And over all of it hangs the shadow of the men in the chalk-stripe suits with names that rhyme with spaghetti," he said. Ms Jowell complained of the "scale of misrepresentation" in the media over the bill in her interview with the newspaper, her first since the bill was launched. The culture secretary said a four year consultation period had produced a consensus on the need to "protect children and the vulnerable" in a swiftly changing sector. Ms Jowell insisted: "We have a good track record for extracting planning gain in this country, for instance in social housing." And continued: "We can be proud to have one of the lowest rates of problem gambling in the world. I intend to keep it that way." Ms Jowell will set out her position when the Bill
Ian Rush's future as Chester manager is uncertain after he and assistant Mark Aizlewood refused a severance package. Chester have won only two of their last 10 League games but Chairman Steve Vaughan claims he cannot afford to sack the 43-year-old Liverpool legend. Vaughan said: "I offered a financial settlement so they could resign with dignity but an obvious action is to dismiss them. "I haven't because of the finances, so technically they're still employees." Vaughan claimed that Aizlewood had "verbally agreed" to the offer. But the Chester chairman added: "After they discussed the offer with their solicitor, who also acts as their agent, they decided to withdraw the verbal agreement, which was disappointing." Rush was appointed at the end of August following the departure of former Liverpool team-mate Mark Wright, who guided Chester to the Conference title last season. Chester were bottom of League Two when Rush took over but the former Liverpool striker enjoyed an impressive start to managerial life, taking the club into the third round of the FA cup and winning the manager-of-the-month award for October. Chester's downturn in form culminated in a 5-0 defeat at Shrewsbury that leaves them hovering just above the League Two relegation zone.
Saturday 20 November Lansdowne Road, Dublin 1300 GMT The Irish coach knows a repeat of the record 83-3 victory over the States in 2000 is not on the agenda and expects a real test at Lansdowne Road. "Their coach Tom Billups will have them very organised," said O'Sullivan. "They ran five tries past the French in the summer, so we will not take them for granted. We have guys coming into the team who are chomping at the bit." The Irish line-up shows nine changes from the team which started against South Africa with winger Tommy Bowe and flanker Denis Leamy making their international debuts. The other changes see recalls for backs David Humphreys, Kevin Maggs and Guy Easterby with Eric Miller, Marcus Horan, Donnacha O'Callaghan and Frank Sheehan all returning to the pack. O'Sullivan said the players coming in had the opportunity to stake claims for inclusion against Argentina on 27 November. Easterby gets a rare start at scrum-half while Humphreys, now effectively Ronan O'Gara's deputy at fly-half, wins his 65th cap. "We have got to get the focus right on the day," said Ulster man Humphreys. "The US may be classed as weaker opposition, but we will treat them with the respect they deserve." The States lost 39-31 against France in their last international and are ranked 16th in world rugby. The Americans have made three changes, plus one positional switch from the game in July against the French. Lock Alec Parker, blind-side flanker Brian Surgener and right
Middlesbrough midfielder James Morrison has been ruled out for up to eight weeks after an operation on Tuesday. The 18-year-old, who has played in 13 of the club's last 14 games, had surgery to repair a double hernia. A club spokesman confirmed: "It is a bilateral sportsman's hernia, which was operated on yesterday." Morrison was sent for scans after being substituted at half-time during Boro's 2-1 UEFA Cup win over Graz AK in which he scored the equaliser. His injury is the latest blow for the Teessiders, who have been without Gaizka Mendieta, George Boateng and Mark Viduka for extended periods. Meanwhile, the kick-off time for Boro's Uefa Cup match at Sporting Lisbon on 17 March has been brought forward from 2115 GMT to 1945 GMT.
Detaining foreign terrorist suspects without trial breaks human rights laws, the UK's highest court has ruled. In a blow to the government's anti-terror measures, the House of Lords law lords ruled by an eight to one majority in favour of appeals by nine detainees. Most of the men are being indefinitely held in Belmarsh prison, south London. The law lords said the measures were incompatible with European human rights laws. The men will stay behind bars while ministers decide how to react. The ruling creates a major problem for Charles Clarke on his first day as home secretary following David Blunkett's resignation. The Liberal Democrats say Mr Clarke should use the fact he is new to the job to take issue with a law established by his predecessor, David Blunkett. Belmarsh prison has been dubbed Britain's Guantanamo Bay by civil rights campaigners opposed to the use of emergency anti-terror laws. The detainees took their case to the House of Lords after the Court of Appeal backed the Home Office's powers to hold them without limit or charge. The government opted out of part of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terrorism legislation in response to the 11 September attacks in the US. Any foreign national suspected of links with terrorism can be detained or can opt to be deported. However those detained cannot be deported if this would mean persecution in their homeland. On Thursday, senior law lord
More than 800,000 Britannia Building Society members are to receive a profit share worth on average £52 each. Members of the UK's second largest building society will share £42m, with 100,000 receiving a windfall of more than £100. Depending on how much they borrow or invest, members earn "reward" points which entitle them to a share of the society's profits. The payouts are bigger than last year, because of stricter eligibility rules. Last year, Britannia members shared £42m, but the average payment was only £38. To qualify for this year's payment, customers must have been members for at least two years on 31 December 2004. Britannia has also stopped making payments to members if they are worth less than £5. To qualify for the profit share, members must have either a mortgage, or an investment account other than a deposit account. Customers can also qualify if they have Permanent Interest Bearing Shares (PIBS). The profit share scheme was introduced in 1997 and has paid out more than £370m. Britannia will unveil its results on Wednesday.
Mexican outfit Red Sharks Veracruz hope to sign Juninho if the Brazilian decides to leave Celtic frustrated at his lack of first-team action. Their president, Gustavo Parente Sanchez, says Juninho "does not wish to remain in Scottish football anymore". Agent Brian Hassell insists that the 31-year-old Brazilian midfielder is determined to win back his place. "But, if the manager is not going to pick him, that's a different ball game," he told The Sun. "That's something we'd have to look at. Juninho deserves respect. He is not a little kid." Hassell warns that Juninho could reconsider his future at Celtic unless he is given a run of games by the end of the January transfer window. Juninho was signed from Middlesbrough during the summer, but he has failed to live up to high expectations and has lost his place to 18-year-old Aiden McGeady. "He has 50 caps for Brazil and he's the best signing Celtic ever made," insisted Hassell. "He wants to play for Martin O'Neill, but does Martin O'Neill want to play him? "Juninho is not someone who has come through the Celtic ranks. He deserves much more respect." Sanchez is bullish about his hopes of prising Juninho from the Scottish champions, although Hassell believes Mexico would not be his preferred destination. "We have already spoken with Juninho and he said, if he has no firm offer from a club in Spain, Veracruz will be his destination," Sanchez told his club's official website. Celtic manager O'Neill is no respecter
Chelsea winger Arjen Robben has broken two metatarsal bones in his foot and will be out for at least six weeks. Robben had an MRI scan on the injury, sustained during the Premiership win at Blackburn, on Monday. "Six weeks is the average time to heal this injury and then I need a few more weeks to be completely fit again," he told Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad. "I had a feeling it was serious but because of the swelling it was impossible to make a final diagnosis." The 21-year-old missed the first three months of the season with a similar injury after a challenge with Roma's Olivier Dacourt. And he added: "It felt different then last summer when I had the same injury on my other foot. "Then I could walk already after three days but I stayed sidelined for a long period. I hope that it will now take me six to eight weeks." Chelsea physio Mike Banks was hopeful that Robben could return at some point in March. "The fractures are tiny and he could be playing next month," Banks told the club's website. "One is a chip on the side of his foot, the other is a small break on the third metatarsal. "But this is not the traditional metatarsal that has become so famous since the last World Cup and which has kept Scott Parker out for two months." David Beckham suffered a broken metatarsal in the build up to the 2002 World Cup in Korea
Wales coach Mike Ruddock has defended his decision not to release any of the international stars for this weekend's regional Celtic League fixtures. Ruddock says the players will benefit from the rest, and their absence will give youngsters a chance to impress. "We've got the WRU charter in place now which outlines exactly what happens," Ruddock told BBC Wales Sport. "Once we're in the Six Nations, the players will only be released in his and the WRU's best interests." The Ospreys and Scarlets say they are happy to support the Wales cause, but the Dragons have expressed disappointment at not being able to use their national squad players in Friday's game with Ulster. Ceri Sweeney, Gareth Cooper, Ian Gough and Kevin Morgan have been used sparingly by Ruddock in the opening two Six Nations wins and captain Jason Forster believes they would benefit from a game with the Dragons. "I'm sure the guys would want to come back to get some game time," Forster told BBC Wales Sport. "It would also be a timely reminder to Mike [Ruddock] as to what they can do. "And the supporters want to see the star players - no disrespect to the other guys - performing on the pitch." Ruddock, though, is keen to protect his players from injury and fatigue. "At this stage, there's nothing more [the players] can do in games to impress me further. "We've got to look at it at another angle and see the opportunities that are provided for
Roger Federer reached the last four of the Qatar Open with an easy 6-1 6-2 win over seventh seed Feliciano Lopez. The Swiss world number one reeled off a series winners to outclass the Spaniard and set up a semi-final match against Russian Nikolay Davydenko. Federer, who lost in the quarter-final in his last Qatar appearance in 2003, was happy with his form. "I think I played better than against Greg Rusedski and I am happy I am playing so well," said the top seed. Lopez showed glimpses of resolve early in the second set when he held his first service game and came close to breaking Federer. But the Swiss saved a break point and promptly broke serve in the following game to seize control. Davydenko, meanwhile, upset French third seed Sebastien Grosjean 2-6 6-3 6-2. Fabrice Santoro completed a miserable day for France when he was forced to retire when 6-2 3-0 down to Albert Costa. Spaniard Costa will next face Croatian Ivan Ljubicic after the sixth seed beat Rafael Nadal 6-2 6-7 (3/7) 6-3.
Manchester United reduced Chelsea's Premiership lead to nine points after a scrappy victory over Manchester City. Wayne Rooney met Gary Neville's cross to the near post with a low shot, which went in via a deflection off Richard Dunne, to put United ahead. Seven minutes later, the unfortunate Dunne hooked a volley over David James' head and into his own net. Steve McManaman wasted City's best chance when he shot wide from three yards in the first half. In the opening 45 minutes United had looked unlikely to earn the win they needed to maintain any chance of catching Chelsea in the title race. Their approach play was more laboured than patient and they managed to fashion just one chance - a Paul Scholes header over the bar. And City seemed to be content to sit back and try and hit their rivals on the break as the game settled into a tepid pattern. Only Shaun Wright-Phillips appeared capable of interrupting the monotony, looking lively down the right and causing Gabriel Heinze problems. Wes Brown also found Wright-Phillips to be a difficult opponent when the tricky winger embarrassed him near the touchline. Wright-Phillips' sublime skill and pace took him past Brown and he delivered a pin-point centre to the feet of McManaman. But the former Liverpool player demonstrated why he has never scored against United by side-footing the easy chance wide. John O'Shea was forced off after an earlier clash with Sylvain Distin and Cristiano Ronaldo came on to replace
Jade Johnson edged out rival Kelly Sotherton with her last effort to claim the AAAs long jump title at the Norwich Union European Indoor trials. Olympic heptathlon bronze medallist, Sotherton, led the event with her first leap of 6.43m - a personal best. But Johnson, who has not competed indoors for five years, leapt to a life-time best of 6.50m in her last jump, after four fouls. Both Johnson and Sotherton passed the European Championships qualifying mark. Although Sotherton's main aim in Madrid next month will be the pentathlon where she will take on Olympic heptathlon champion Carolina Kluft. Ireland's delivered a shock in the men's 200m as he stormed to his first major title in 21.01 seconds. British favourite Chris Lambert had to settle for second place while defending champion Ireland's Paul Brizzel took third. There was some consolation for Lambert as he set a personal best of 20.94 in the first round - good enough to qualify for Europe. Two-time AAAs champion Allyn Condon and Ian Mackie had no such luck as they were disqualified in the heats. There was plenty of hot action in the men's 60m hurdles where Scotland's was vying for top spot with Olympian Andy Turner. Scott, 22, smashed his personal best on the way to the final, where he broke it again to win the AAAs title in 7.58 seconds. Turner finished second in 7.82 after previously setting a personal best on the 7.83 in the semi-finals, while Damien Greaves did not finish
Real Madrid midfielder David Beckham has no plans to become a manager when his playing career is over. "I am not interested in being a coach but I would like to have football schools," the England captain said on television station Canal Plus. "I have wanted to do that since I went to the Bobby Charlton school. I'm going to open one in London and one in LA. "My second passion is charity work - I am an ambassador for Unicef and it gives me great pride." But Beckham revealed that his immediate priority was winning the Spanish league title with Real Madrid. Real slipped to 13 points behind leaders Barcelona with a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Sevilla on Wednesday. Beckham admitted: "It's disappointing and frustrating to see the results, considering the team we have. "I would really like to win La Liga with Real Madrid - I have been here two years and we still have not done it." In a wide-ranging interview, Beckham also revealed that his sending-off against Argentina - and the resulting media storm - had been the most significant moment in his career. Asked for his worst memory, he said: "To be sent off against Argentina - it was not for the sending-off but for what happened afterwards. "I was lucky because I had a manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, who supported me and a strong family behind me but I believe that changed me. "I believe it changed me for the better."
Rangers are set to loan out-of-favour midfielder Dragan Mladenovic to Real Sociedad, despite the closure of the January transfer window. Sociedad have been given special permission by the Spanish FA to sign a player due to an injury crisis. Mladenovic will effectively replace former Rangers midfielder Mikel Arteta, who has been loaned to Everton. Sociedad say they will pay Rangers £150,000, with an option to buy the Serbia & Montenegro international. Mladenovic's loan move is subject to him passing a medical. The 28-year-old, who joined Rangers from Red Star Belgrade for £1.2m in the close season, is expected in San Sebastian later this week following his national side's game against Bulgaria. Sociedad are in 15th place in the 20-strong Primera Liga, just two points above the relegation zone. Special permission from the Spanish FA came after an injury to central defender Igor Jauregi. The versatile Mladenovic can also play in the back four. His agent said last month that Rangers had told him to find the player a new club. Mladenovic's time at Ibrox has been plagued with injury and he has made just six starts in six months with the Glasgow club.
Spain won the Davis Cup for the second time in their history when Carlos Moya beat the USA's Andy Roddick in the fourth rubber in Seville. Moya won 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead with only one singles rubber remaining. Roddick battled hard and had chances in the second set, but Moya's clay-court expertise proved the difference. Mardy Fish beat Tommy Robredo 7-6 (8-6) 6-2 in the final dead rubber to cut Spain's winning margin to 3-2. Spain's only other Davis Cup title came in 2000, when they beat Australia in Barcelona. This time they chose to play the final in Seville and the city's Olympic Stadium was revamped to allow for a record crowd for a competitve tennis event of 27,000 spectators. And the home fans gave vociferous support to their players, with 18-year-old Nadal and Moya winning both Friday's singles rubbers. American twins Mike and Bob Bryan gave the visitors hope with victory over Juan Carlos Ferrero and Tommy Robredo in Saturday's doubles. But it remained an uphill task for a US team far happier on hard courts than clay, and 1998 French Open champion Moya had too much for world number two Roddick. "This has been incredible - the moment I've been waiting for for years," said Moya, who missed out in 2000 through injury. "I've prepared myself for this day. I knew that playing on clay I would have my chances to win. "The Davis Cup is my dream.
Ballymena sprinter Paul Brizzel will be among eight of Ireland's European Indoor hopefuls competing in this weekend's AAA's Championships. US-based Alistair Cragg and Mark Carroll are the only Irish athletes selected so far for the Europeans who will not run in Sheffield. Brizzel will defend his 200m title in the British trials. In-form James McIlroy will hope to confirm his place in the British team for Madrid by winning the 800m title. McIlroy has been in tremendous form on the European circuit in recent weeks. He is one of the fastest 800m runners in the world this winter and already seems assured of a place in Madrid. Corkman Mark Carroll confirmed in midweek that he would join Cragg in the European Championships. Carroll is ranked number three in the world 3000m ranking at the moment with Cragg occupying top spot. Meanwhile, nine-times champion Dermot Donnelly will not be coming out of retirement to compete in the Northern Ireland Cross Country Championships in Coleraine on Saturday. An injury crisis in the Annadale Striders squad led to Donnelly being entered by coach John McLaughlin but the athlete told BBC Sport on Friday evening that he would not be running. Willowfield's Paul Rowan will go in as individual favourite but Annadale could have a tough job holding on to their team title as Andrew Dunwoody and Noel Pollock are unlikely to run.
Newcastle have fined their Welsh striker Craig Bellamy two weeks' wages - about £80,000 - following his row with manager Graeme Souness. But Bellamy, 25, has not been put on the transfer list, although he did not train with the first team on Tuesday. Magpies chairman Freddy Shepherd told the Newcastle Evening Chronicle: "It is not about money. It is about a player thinking he is bigger than this club. "No individual is, be it the chairman, the manager or a player." Souness dropped Bellamy for Sunday's game against Arsenal, claiming the Welshman had feigned injury after being asked to play out of position. "When I heard what the manager was saying I was in shock," Bellamy said. "I thought 'not only has he gone behind my back, he's lying'," he said in response to Souness' remarks. And the Wales international refused to apologise. "I won't apologise because I have done nothing wrong," he told the Evening Chronicle. "There's no doubt about it, I am out of here." The difficult relationship between Souness and Bellamy boiled over at the weekend, and has led to a war of words in the media. Bellamy's claim that Souness had lied about the background to the bust-up was strongly denied by Shepherd, who accused the striker of "cheating" the club. "I wish to put the record straight regarding the Bellamy situation," said Shepherd. "Craig walked off the training ground saying his hamstring was tight (on Friday), but what he failed to reveal was that
The Belgian sports minister at the centre of the Svetlana Kuznetsova doping row says he will not apologise for making allegations against her. Claude Eerdekens claims the US Open champion tested positive for ephedrine at an exhibition event last month. Criticised for making the announcement, he said: "I will never apologise. This product is banned and it's up to her to explain why it's there." Kuznetsova says the stimulant may have been in a cold remedy she took. The Russian said she did nothing wrong by taking the medicine during the event. The Women's Tennis Association cleared Kuznetsova of any offence because the drug is not banned when taken out of competition. Eerdekens said he made the statement in order to protect the other three players that took part in the tournament, Belgian Justine Henin-Hardenne, Nathalie Dechy of France and Russia's Elena Dementieva. But Dechy is fuming that she has been implicated in the row. "How can you be happy when you see your face on the cover page and talking about doping?" Dechy said. "I'm really upset about it and I think the Belgian government did a really bad job about this. "I think we deserve an apology from the guy. You cannot say anything like this - you cannot say some stuff like this, saying it's one of these girls. This is terrible." Dementieva is also angry and says that Dechy and herself are the real victims of the scandal. "You have no idea what I have been
Athletics fans endured a year of mixed emotions in 2004 as stunning victories went hand-in-hand with disappointing defeats and more drugs scandals. Kelly Holmes finally fulfilled her potential by storming to double gold on the track at the Olympic Games. Holmes helped erase the gloom hanging over Team GB after their biggest medal hope, Paula Radcliffe, dropped out of the marathon and then the 10,000m. Britain's men's 4x100m relay team also did their bit by taking a shock gold. Holmes had started the year in disappointing style, falling over in the final of 1500m at the World Indoor Championships where she was favourite. Her Olympic build-up was clouded by self doubt but that proved unfounded as she overhauled rival Maria Mutola to win the 800m - her first global title. Just five days later, the 34-year-old made it double gold in the 1500m. It was the first time in 84 years a Briton has achieved the Olympic middle-distance double. While Holmes left Athens as the star of Team GB, it was Radcliffe who carried expectations before the August Games. The 30-year-old marathon world record holder went into the Athens event as favourite but an exhausted Radcliffe dropped out after 23 miles in tears. Her decision to enter the 10,000m five days later also backfired as she again pulled out with eight laps remaining. But Radcliffe helped put her Olympic trauma behind her with a thrilling win in November's New York Marathon. The 4x100m team grabbed some last-gasp glory for the
Lewis Moody has flown to Dublin to join England's camp ahead of their RBS Six Nations game against Ireland on Sunday. Despite joining the squad, the Leicester flanker only has a "slim" chance of playing because of an infection in his finger. A decision will be taken on Saturday as to whether the 26-year-old will be declared fit. If he fails to recover in time for the game, his place at the back of the pack will be taken by Andy Hazell. Chris Jones will then start the game on the bench. "The chances of him playing are very slim," said coach Andy Robinson. "The infection is deeper than was thought." Moody had to be put on a drip in an attempt to force antibiotics through his infected finger. He suffered the cut playing against France at Twickenham and it became infected during a 10-minute outing as a replacement for Leicester against Newcastle last Saturday. "The mud got into it," Robinson added. "He has had a big course of antibiotics but they haven't done the job we hoped they would." Robinson has already been forced to make one change to the starting line-up with Bath prop Matt Stevens coming in for the injured Phil Vickery. The 22-year-old has only made 10 starts for his club but has made 49 appearances from the bench. "It can be frustrating but I've had a lot more game time this season and I'm ready for it," Stevens said. "I've been on tour with these
Wales coach Mike Ruddock has made two changes from the team that beat Italy 38-8 for Saturday's trip to France. Kevin Morgan takes over from his injured Newport-Gwent Dragons colleague Hal Luscombe on the right wing. And in the pack Neath-Swansea Ospreys forward Ryan Jones is preferred at blindside flanker to Jonathan Thomas. Thomas, a try-scorer in Rome, drops down to the bench instead of Ian Gough, while Cardiff back Rhys Williams steps up in place of Morgan. Luscombe is sidelined by a hamstring problem sustained during the Six Nations game against Italy last weekend. However, the experienced and in-form Morgan was already pushing hard for a start at Stade de France. "Due to his impressive performances from the bench, Kevin was very much in the selection mix anyway, and the unfortunate injury to Hal gives him the chance to start," said Ruddock. "Now that Ryan Jones has recovered from injury, we have increased the options in the back row. "Jonathan Thomas is unlucky to lose his spot after performing well against Italy and scoring a try, but such is the competition for places that every position is debated in detail. "For this particular game, we felt we might not always be afforded the open spaces out wide we were able to exploit against Italy, so an extra big ball-carrier in the back-row is thought to be necessary on this occasion. "Obviously, it's a 22-man game these days, and there is every chance that Jonathan will be making an impact
Serena Williams staged a remarkable recovery to beat Lindsay Davenport and win her second Australian Open title. The 2003 champion claimed her seventh Grand Slam title, and her first since Wimbledon in 2003, 2-6 6-3 6-0. Williams had looked close to quitting with a rib injury when she left the court for treatment after five games. She quickly dropped the first set but from 3-3 in the second found another gear as Davenport's game collapsed, allowing Williams to take the title. Williams later explained her injury problem, saying it was the result of lunging for a ball early in the first set. "Lindsay had me on the run out wide on my backhand and my back went but eventually I was able to come back, thank goodness," she said. Davenport paid tribute to Williams, saying: "She's had a tough couple of years and she's come back like a champion." The 23-year-old former world number one was in desperate trouble in the early stages as the injury hampered her service action. Davenport took advantage to race through the opening set and held six break points in game five of the second. "I kept thinking to myself 'I'm not losing this game," said Williams afterwards. "'I don't care if my arm falls off, I'm not losing this game'. And I guess that's what happened. "I didn't want to lose that particular game because it would have given her a lot of momentum, and a lot of confidence." Despite letting the break points
Jesper Gronkjaer has agreed a move to Atletico Madrid from Birmingham City. The 27-year-old winger spent just five months at St Andrews following a £2.2m move from Chelsea in July after playing for Denmark at Euro 2004. He is set to move during the January transfer window in a deal rumoured to be about £1.4m, subject to a medical. "We will meet with the player's representative to finalise the contract and decide when he will sign," said Atletico sporting director Toni Munoz. Gronkjaer has been targeted by Blues fans and was sarcastically applauded when taken off against Everton last month. Boss Steve Bruce had said that he would be happy to let the Danish international go if the price was right. He added: "I'm not going to say the decision to let him go is down to the fans' reaction towards him. "He has had a tough time since the summer with the loss of his mother and finding it difficult to adjust to a new club and a different area. "He has been terrific and not missed a day's training and is someone if your daughter brought them home you would be delighted. "It just hasn't quite worked out here for him. But we'd like to get back most of what we spent."
Birmingham have confirmed Blackburn made a bid for Robbie Savage - but managing director Karen Brady has called it "derisory". Rovers have reportedly offered £500,000 up front for the Wales star, 30, with the fee rising to £2.2m. But Brady told The Sun the bid was "a waste of fax paper and my time". She added: "The way things are going all this could affect the relationship between the clubs. They've got into Robbie's head. But he's not for sale." Savage's future at Birmingham has been the source of speculation for several weeks, with some fans criticising his performances for the club earlier in the season. However, good displays against West Brom and Aston Villa have impressed Blues fans. "The crowd gave me a massive standing ovation when I came off on Saturday which was nice," he said. "It was fantastic even though I was criticised by a number of them in recent weeks and on Saturday it showed how much I mean to them. "It's not for me to say (about transfer rumours), it's between the two clubs. "I haven't created the speculation myself, I haven't phoned every national newspaper saying, 'Blackburn are trying to buy me'. It's not up to me." Birmingham manager Steve Bruce insists he does not want to sell Savage. "A lot is said and written about Sav but he has been terrific for Birmingham City the last two and a half years," he said. "The fans love him because he epitomises them. He works
A brave defensive display, led by keeper David James, helped Manchester City hold the leaders Chelsea. After a quiet opening, James denied Damien Duff, Jiri Jarosik and Mateja Kezman, while Paul Bosvelt cleared William Gallas' header off the line. Robbie Fowler should have scored for the visitors but sent his header wide. Chelsea had most of the possession in the second half but James kept out Frank Lampard's free-kick and superbly tipped the same player's volley wide. City went into the game with the proud record of being the only domestic team to beat Chelsea this season. And there was little to alarm them in the first 30 minutes as Chelsea - deprived of Arjen Robben and Didier Drogba through injury - struggled to pose much of a threat. Indeed, it was the visitors who looked likelier to enliven a drab opening played at a lethargic pace. Shaun Wright-Phillips - watched by England boss Sven-Goran Eriksson - showed his customary trickery to burst into the right of the area and deliver a dangerous ball, which was blocked by John Terry. But Chelsea suddenly stepped up a gear and created a flurry of chances. First, Duff got round Ben Thatcher and blasted in a shot that James parried to Kezman, who turned the ball wide. Soon afterwards, Jarosik found space in the area to powerfully head Lampard's corner goalwards but James tipped the ball over. Chelsea were now looking more like Premiership leaders and James kept out Kezman's fierce drive before
Tough-scrummaging prop Julian White is expecting a resurgent Wales to give him a rough ride in England's Six Nations opener in Cardiff on Saturday. The Leicester tight-head is in the form of his life, making the England number three shirt his own. But he knows Wales will put his technique under immense scrutiny. "The Welsh scrum is a force to be reckoned with," he told BBC Sport. "They have made a lot of changes for the better over the last few years." White is also impressed with the Welsh pack's strength in depth. "Gethin Jenkins is starting at loose-head for them. He has played a bit at tight-head but I think his favoured position is loose-head and he is very good," he added. The 31-year-old has made a massive contribution to the England and Leicester cause of late and is arguably the form tight-head prop in the world. He destroyed South Africa's Os du Randt in the scrum at Twickenham last autumn to give England the platform for an impressive 32-16 victory. Leicester, who signed White from Bristol when the West Country side were relegated from the Zurich Premiership in the summer of 2003, have also been aided by White's presence this season. The Tigers are sitting pretty at the top of the Premiership table and have also booked their place in the last eight of the Heineken Cup. "I am pleased with my form," he said. "But my form is helped by the people I play with at Leicester
France have brought flanker Serge Betsen back into their squad to face England at Twickenham on Sunday. But the player, who missed the victory over Scotland through injury, must attend a disciplinary hearing on Wednesday after being cited by Wasps. "Serge has a good case so we are confident he will play," said France coach Bernard Laporte. The inexperienced Nicolas Mas, Jimmy Marlu and Jean-Philippe Grandclaude are also included in a 22-man squad. The trio have been called up after Pieter de Villiers, Ludovic Valbon and Aurelien Rougerie all picked up injuries in France's 16-9 win on Saturday. Laporte said he was confident that Betsen would be cleared by the panel investigating his alleged trip that broke Wasps centre Stuart Abbott's leg. "If he was to be suspended, we would call up Imanol Harinordoquy or Thomas Lievremont," said Laporte, who has dropped Patrick Tabacco. "We missed Serge badly against Scotland. He has now recovered from his thigh injury and played on Saturday with Biarritz." France's regular back-row combination of Betsen, Harinordoquy and Olivier Magne were all missing from France's side at the weekend because of injury. Laporte is expected to announce France's starting line-up on Wednesday. Forwards: Nicolas Mas, Sylvain Marconnet, Olivier Milloud, William Servat, Sebastien Bruno, Fabien Pelous, Jerome Thion, Gregory Lamboley, Serge Betsen, Julien Bonnaire, Sebastien Chabal, Yannick Nyanga. Backs: Dimitri Yachvili, Pierre Mignoni, Frederic Michalak, Yann Delaigue, Damien Traille, Brian Liebenberg, Jean-Philippe Grandclaude, Christophe Dominici, Jimmy Marlu, Pepito Elhorga.
(after extra-time - score at 90 mins 1-1) John Arne Riise volleyed Liverpool ahead after 45 seconds but Steven Gerrard scored a 79th-minute own goal. Blues boss Jose Mourinho was sent off for taunting Liverpool fans after the goal and he watched on television as his side went on to win the game. Drogba and Kezman scored from close range before Antonio Nunez's header made for a tense finale. It was an amazing climax which gave Mourinho his first silverware as Chelsea manager. Yet it was controversial too, after Mourinho's sending off, apparently for putting his finger to his lips to hush the Liverpool fans. There was no hushing them after the extraordinary opening in which the Reds took a stunning lead inside the first minute. Riise could not have connected any better with Morientes' cross as he smashed a left-foot volley past Petr Cech. The goal, the quickest-ever in a League Cup final, stunned a Blues side whose previously rock-solid confidence had been shaken by consecutive losses to Newcastle and Barcelona in the previous week. The Blues' attacking chances were limited, and Jerzy Dudek was equal to Frank Lampard's powerfully-struck drive and Drogba's low shot. Despite their frustration, Chelsea began to dominate midfield without seriously threatening to break Liverpool's well-organised defence. Joe Cole had a shot blocked and a promising Damien Duff break was halted by a good tackle from Djimi Traore, but the Reds reached half-time without any major scares. The Blues began the second half with more
James McIlroy stormed to his second international victory in less than a week, claiming the men's 800m at the TEAG indoor meeting in Erfurt. The Northern Ireland runner set a new personal best of one minute, 46.68 seconds - a time good enough to qualify for the European Indoor Championships. "I'm qualified now and that's what matters most," said the 28-year-old. McIlroy is now hoping to gain a late entry into Sunday's international indoor meeting in Leipzig. The Northern Irishman is hoping manager Ricky Simms can swing it for him to compete after he initially withdrew after contracting a cold. After three successive wins over the past fortnight, McIlroy is brimming with confidence. "I've been waiting over six years for this to happen and now I'm certain my career has turned the corner." On Friday, McIlroy delivered an impressive run despite suffering from his bad cold. The AAA indoor and outdoor champion accelerated away from the field in the final 300m, beating German Wolfram Mulle by 0.90 seconds. McIlroy set a world-leading mark for 1,000m at the Sparkassen Cup in Stuttgart last weekend. And his time in Erfurt makes him third fastest over 800m in the world this year.
England coach Andy Robinson faces the first major test of his tenure as he tries to get back to winning ways after the Six Nations defeat by Wales. Robinson is likely to make changes in the back row and centre after the 11-9 loss as he contemplates Sunday's set-to with France at Twickenham. Lewis Moody and Martin Corry could both return after missing the game with hamstring and shoulder problems. And the midfield pairing of Mathew Tait and Jamie Noon is also under threat. Olly Barkley immediately allowed England to generate better field position with his kicking game after replacing debutant Tait just before the hour. The Bath fly-half-cum-centre is likely to start against France, with either Tait or Noon dropping out. Tait, given little opportunity to shine in attack, received praise from Robinson afterwards, even if the coach admitted Cardiff was an "unforgiving place" for the teenage prodigy. Robinson now has a tricky decision over whether to withdraw from the firing line, after just one outing, a player he regards as central to England's future. Tait himself, at least outwardly, appeared unaffected by the punishing treatment dished out to him by Gavin Henson in particular. "I want more of that definitely," he said. "Hopefully I can train hard this week and get selected for next week but we'll have to look at the video and wait and see. "We were playing on our own 22 for a lot of the first half so it was quite difficult. I thought
Kostas Kenteris' lawyer has called for the doping charges against the Greek sprinter to be dropped. Gregory Ioannidis has submitted new evidence to a Greek athletics tribunal which he claims proves the former Olympic champion has no case to answer. Kenteris and compatriot Katerina Thanou were given provisional suspensions in December for failing to take drugs tests before the Athens Olympics. The Greek tribunal is expected to give its verdict early next week. Kenteris and Thanou withdrew from the Athens Olympics last August after missing drugs tests on the eve of the opening ceremony. They were also alleged to have avoided tests in Tel Aviv and Chicago before the Games. But Ioannidis said: "Everything overwhelmingly shows that the charges should be dropped." Ioannidis also said he has presented evidence that will throw a different light on the events leading up to the pair's sensational withdrawal from the Athens Games. The lawyer added that he has proof the authorities "knew" Kenteris was in Germany at the time he was alleged to have missed a test in Chicago. Nick Davies, spokesman for athletics' ruling body the IAAF, which handed out the provisional bans, said: "We can't comment because we were not present at the hearing and don't know what was said behind closed doors. "We expect a verdict from the Greek Athletics Federation before the end of February and will obviously be making a statement then." Kenteris won 200m gold at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, while Thanou won silver in the 100m.
Controversy and Lawrence Dallaglio have never been very far away from each other throughout a glittering international career. Even the end of his nine-year career came out of the blue, just four days before the start of the season. But then Dallaglio has always been his own man. Ever since emerging onto the international scene Dallaglio has polarised opinions. To supporters of England, Dallaglio could do no wrong. An integral part of a sustained period of success for England, Dallaglio's crowning glory was his part in the side that won the Rugby World Cup in 2003. Rival fans, meanwhile, have tended to take an alternative view, seeing Dallaglio as the epitome of the less agreeable characteristics of English rugby. Never afraid to speak his mind, be it to the referee or the opposition on the pitch, or his coach or the media off it, Dallaglio has sometimes rubbed people up the wrong way. Dallaglio arrived as part of the unheralded England side which became the shock winners of the first Rugby Sevens World Cup in 1993. It took him another two years to graduate to the full England XV, but once there he proved to the manor born. Displaying maturity and physical power beyond his years, Dallaglio rapidly established himself as an automatic choice able to play any one of the three back-row positions at international standard. Within two years of his debut, Dallaglio was offered the England captain's band, and his career continued to go from strength to strength
Italy coach John Kirwan believes his side can upset England as the Six Nations wooden spoon battle hots up. The two sides, both without a win, meet on 12 March at Twickenham and Kirwan says his side will be hoping to make the most of England's current slump. "We have to make sure the England and France games are tough for them. "England have not been having the best of championships. That is a big one for us and them and I am sure my players will rise to the occasion," he said. But Kirwan admits that a lot of hard work will be needed with his kickers before the trip to London. Roland de Marigny and Luciano Orquera had a miserable time with the boot in the dire defeat to Scotland as Chris Paterson stole the show to give the hosts a much-needed 18-10 victory. Kirwan said: "The kicking was the decisive factor in Scotland which cost us and it could go down to the kicking again next time. "But I have a lot of confidence in my players and I am positive we can put everything together against England." England, meanwhile, are licking their wounds and rueing what might have been had two decisions from referee Jonathan Kaplan not gone against them in the second half in Dublin. First Mark Cueto was judged offside as he chased fly-half Charlie Hodgson's kick, and then Kaplan opted not to call upon video evidence to see if Josh Lewsey had touched
Hong Kong is hoping to join Japan as co-host of the 2011 Rugby World Cup. Japan has applied to host the tournament on its own, with the aim of taking it outside rugby's traditional strongholds for the first time. But Hong Kong Rugby Football Union (HKRFU) chairman John Molloy has called for the territory to host one of the pools and a quarter-final. The Japanese Rugby Football Union (JRFU) says it has yet to receive a formal presentation from the HKRFU. "At this stage, we are only considering hosting the event by ourselves," said JRFU secretary Koji Tokumasu. "We cannot examine any proposal unless we get it in a definitive form." Japan faces stiff competition in the form of South Africa and New Zealand to host the event in seven years' time. "Until now, the World Cup has been held in countries from the Six Nations or Tri-Nations," said Tokumasu. "We think, and the IRB thinks, that it is time for rugby to go global. "Japan is ready to host the tournament and we are looking forward to welcoming the world of rugby to Japan." Tokumasu added that the 2002 football World Cup, co-hosted by Japan and South Korea, had been a huge success. "As well as having the infrastructure in place, Japan also has the commercial clout to host one of sport's top competitions," he said. Last year, Japan launched its first professional rugby league and it has the fourth largest number of registered players (125,508) in the world
Greek athletics' governing body has postponed by two weeks the judgement on sprinters Costas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou for missing doping tests. The pair are facing lengthy bans for the missed tests, including one on the eve of last year's Athens Olympics. They were set to learn their fate by the end of February, but late evidence from them has pushed the date back. "A decision is now expected by around mid-March," said one of their lawyers, Michalis Dimitrakopoulos. Kenteris, 31, who won the men's 200m title at the 2000 Sydney Games and Thanou, 30, who won the women's 100m silver medal in Sydney, face a maximum two-year ban if found guilty. The athletes, who spectacularly withdrew from the Athens Olympics, have been suspended by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) for missing the three tests. The IAAF said the sprinters had failed to provide samples for tests in Tel Aviv, Chicago and Athens and ordered Greek athletic's governing body, Segas, to hold a disciplinary inquiry. The athletes also face a criminal hearing in Greece over the missed drugs tests and have been charged with faking a motorcycle accident on the day of the Athens test, which led to them spending four days in hospital. Following the final hearing in late January, the athletes sounded confident they would be acquitted. "I am confident and optimistic," Thanou had said at the time. "We presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of." It was not clear what
Tottenham manager Jacques Santini has resigned for "personal reasons". The former France manager moved to White Hart Lane this summer but now wants to return to France. Santini said: "My time at Tottenham has been memorable and it is with deep regret that I take my leave. I wish the club and the supporters all the best. "Private issues in my personal life have arisen which caused my decision. I very much hope that the wonderful fans will respect my decision." He added: "I should like to thank (sporting director) Frank Arnesen and (chairman) Daniel Levy for their understanding." Assistant coach Martin Jol has been put in temporary charge and will take care of team affairs for Saturday's Premiership match against Charlton. Arnesen said the club were sad to see Santini go: "We are obviously disappointed that Jacques is leaving us. We fully respect his decision. "I can assure you that the club will act swiftly to minimise the impact of Jacques' departure. "Our priority is to ensure that this season's performance remains unaffected by this move. "I shall make a further statement on Monday, clarifying our position. We wish Jacques well."
Former England captain Lawrence Dallaglio still harbours hopes of a place on the British and Irish Lions tour to New Zealand. Lions coach Sir Clive Woodward has made it clear he will pick his squad to tour next summer based on form shown in the Six Nations championship. But Dallaglio, who called time on England earlier this year, said: "I assure you I wouldn't let anyone down. "I know what it takes and what I have to offer," he told the Daily Telegraph. Dallaglio toured South Africa with the Lions in 1997 but was forced home early with a knee injury from the trip to Australia three years ago. The 32-year-old also felt concentrating on club rugby could have prolonged his international shelf-life. He said: "I'll be in good shape and fresh without another 10 Tests on the clock. "From what I witnessed at close quarters on Sunday in our Heineken Cup match against Leicester, I certainly didn't feel out of place alongside those players, many of whom will be on the trip. "If I'm fit and playing well, then I'm most certainly available. "If Clive feels he has no need to look outside the international crop, then fine. If he does, then he won't need to look too far, will he?"
Leicester withstood a stunning Wasps comeback to win a pulsating Heineken Cup encounter at the Causeway Stadium. The Tigers stormed 22-6 ahead within 18 minutes through tries from Lewis Moody, Geordan Murphy and Martin Corry. European champions Wasps fought back through a Josh Lewsey try and Mark van Gisbergen's boot, and they were level at 31-31 with five minutes remaining. But it was the visitors who kept their cool as Andy Goode kicked the Tigers to victory with a penalty and a drop goal. The closing moments saw desperate defence from Leicester as Wasps turned down several penalties to go for the try they needed. Wasps pounded the line and a penalty try looked likely before referee Nigel Williams controversially blew for full-time. Fly-half Goode was the Tigers hero, kicking 22 points in total, while Leicester's overwhelming domination in the scrums ultimately told. Even their lack of discipline in defence - which presented the admirable Van Ginsberg with 26 points - could not undo them as they held out for a famous win. Lawrence Dallaglio's team have now got it all to do in the quest for a quarter-final place given that two of their last three games are away - against Leicester and Biarritz. However, Wasps rugby director Warren Gatland warned his side will will not relinquish their European title without a fight. "If we lose next week, then we are struggling," said Gatland. "But we don't want to give this trophy away. We worked so hard to win
Ronan O'Gara scored all Ireland's points as the home side claimed only their second ever win over South Africa on an emotional day at Lansdowne Road. O'Gara's first-half try, poached after a quick tap-penalty, helped the Irish to a 8-3 lead at half-time. Three further O'Gara penalties extended Ireland's lead to 17-6 as the game entered the final quarter. Two Percy Montgomery penalties set up a frantic finish but Ireland held out to claim a famous victory. Ireland began strongly and were never led, but the match was tense and closely fought throughout. Aware of the threat posed by the South Africans, Ireland pressed hard from the outset, and played some impressive rugby while searching for a breakthrough. Early on, Denis Hickie thought he was in for a try after a delightful backline move but Shane Horgan's pass was adjudged to have gone forward by referee Paul Honiss. Ireland continued to press and they showed their intent by opting for a line-out in the 19th minute when three straight-forward points were on offer. Another South African infringement a minute later led to Ireland's first points - O'Gara took a quick tap-penalty and charged over the opposition line for an Irish try. The Springboks could feel hard done by as captain John Smit had his back to the play when O'Gara pounced after referee Honiss had told the skipper to warn his own players after consistent infringements. Stung by the score, the South Africans almost replied with a try of their
Claudio Ranieri has been sacked as Valencia coach just eight months after taking charge at the Primera Liga club for the second time in his career. The decision was taken at a board meeting following the side's surprise elimination from the Uefa Cup. "We understand, and he understands, that the results in the last few weeks have not been the most appropriate," said club president Juan Bautista. Former assistant Antonio Lopez will take over as the new coach. Italian Ranieri took over the Valencia job in June 2004 having been replaced at Chelsea by Jose Mourinho. Things began well but the Spanish champions extended their winless streak to six after losing to Racing Santander last weekend. That defeat was then followed by a Uefa Cup exit at the hands of Steaua Bucharest. Ranieri first took charge of Valencia in 1997, guiding them to the King's Cup and helping them to qualify for the Champions League. The 54-year-old then moved to Atletico Madrid in 1999, before joining Chelsea the following year.
Tottenham sporting director Frank Arnesen has denied that coach Jacques Santini resigned because of a clash of personalities at White Hart Lane. There had been newspaper speculation that Santini had felt undermined by Arnesen's role at the club. "It is absolutely not true," Arnesen told BBC Radio Five Live. "There is only one thing that made him resign and that is his own personal problems. "He has talked to me recently and said this matter is absolutely for himself." Arnesen said he was unable to throw any light onto the problems that caused Santini to quit after just 13 games in charge. He added: "Jacques has never gone into exactly what it was. But I trust him in that; you have to accept it. I think we should respect it. "The plan is now that over the weekend we will have talks with the board and then on Monday we will clarify the situation." Arnesen countered criticism at the timing of the announcement, coming less than 24 hours before Tottenham's Premiership fixture with Charlton. "When it comes down to personal problems, I don't think we should talk about timing," he said. And he also denied reports that Santini had been given a £3m pay-off. "That is absolute nonsense. He is the one who said 'I will go' and so he went'", said the Spurs sporting director. Tottenham's structure of having a sporting director working alongside a coach is based on a continental model and Arnesen sees no reason why they
Leicester say they will not be rushed into making a bid for Andy Farrell should the Great Britain rugby league captain decide to switch codes. "We and anybody else involved in the process are still some way away from going to the next stage," Tigers boss John Wells told BBC Radio Leicester. "At the moment, there are still a lot of unknowns about Andy Farrell, not least his medical situation. "Whoever does take him on is going to take a big, big gamble." Farrell, who has had persistent knee problems, had an operation on his knee five weeks ago and is expected to be out for another three months. Leicester and Saracens are believed to head the list of rugby union clubs interested in signing Farrell if he decides to move to the 15-man game. If he does move across to union, Wells believes he would better off playing in the backs, at least initially. "I'm sure he could make the step between league and union by being involved in the centre," said Wells. "I think England would prefer him to progress to a position in the back row where they can make use of some of his rugby league skills within the forwards. "The jury is out on whether he can cross that divide. "At this club, the balance will have to be struck between the cost of that gamble and the option of bringing in a ready-made replacement."
Fly-half Jonny Wilkinson has been named as England's new rugby union captain for the three November Tests. The 25-year-old Newcastle star takes over from Lawrence Dallaglio, who retired from internationals in August. England's acting head coach Andy Robinson said: "He is a natural leader, holds the respect of the squad and is a formidable talent on the pitch. "And he consistently demonstrates the energy and commitment I feel is essential to be captain of England." Robinson added: "There are several players in the squad I would feel comfortable in calling upon to be England captain but for me Jonny is in every way the right player to take on this challenge. "Captaincy offers a challenging environment for any player, especially following in the footsteps of Lawrence Dallaglio and before him the World Cup captain, Martin Johnson. "But I am confident Jonny has what it takes to do an outstanding job as we look ahead towards the next Rugby World Cup in France and I look forward to working with him." Wilkinson, who has scored 817 points in 52 internationals, kicked the winning drop-goal in the final seconds of extra-time in England's 2003 Rugby World Cup triumph against Australia. But he then missed the entire 2004 Six Nations campaign while recuperating from shoulder surgery, before making his comeback for Newcastle in the Zurich Premiership in August. "It's the ambition of so many players to one day be captain of England and today I have realised a dream," he said. "I'm honoured
England will have to negotiate their way through a tough draw if they are to win the Rugby World Cup Sevens in Hong Kong next month. The second seeds have been drawn against Samoa, France, Italy, Georgia and Chinese Taipei. The top two sides in each pool qualify but England could face 2001 winners New Zealand in the quarter-finals if they stumble against Samoa. Scotland and Ireland are in Pool A together with the All Blacks. England won the first event of the International Rugby Board World Sevens series in Dubai but have slipped to fourth in the table after failing to build on that victory. However, they beat Samoa in the recent Los Angeles Sevens before losing to Argentina in the semi-finals. "England have the ability and determination to win this World Cup and create sporting history by being the only nation to hold both the 15s and Sevens World Cups at the same time," said England sevens coach Mike Friday. "England have a fantastic record in Hong Kong and have won there the last three years, but the World Cup is on a different level. "Every pool contains teams who have caused upsets before and we will have to work hard to ensure we progress from our group. "We have not performed consistently to our true potential so far in the IRB Sevens which has been disappointing - but we can only look forward." England won the first Rugby World Cup Sevens in 1993 with a side that
Spain coach Luis Aragones is furious after being fined by The Spanish Football Federation for his comments about Thierry Henry. The 66-year-old criticised his 3000 euros (£2,060) punishment even though it was far below the maximum penalty. "I am not guilty, nor do I accept being judged for actions against the image of the sport," he said. "I'm not a racist and I've never lacked sporting decorum. I've never done that and I have medals for sporting merit." Aragones was handed the fine on Tuesday after making racist remarks about Henry to Arsenal team-mate and Spanish international Jose Reyes last October. The Spanish Football Federation at first declined to take action against Aragones, but was then requested to do so by Spain's anti-violence commission. The fine was far less than the expected amount of about £22,000 or even the suspension of his coaching licence. Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger, who was fined £15,000 in December for accusing Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy of cheating, believes that Aragones' punishment was too lenient. "You compare his fine and my fine, and if you consider his was for racist abuse, then you seem to get away with it more in Spain than you should," Wenger said. "He shouldn't have said what he said, and how much money is enough, I don't know but it doesn't look a big punishment." However, Aragones insists the fine is unjustified and unfair. "I have been treated like Islero (the bull that killed famous bullfighter Manolete)," said Aragones
World and Commonwealth 100m champion Kim Collins will compete in the 60m at the Norwich Union Grand Prix in Birmingham on 18 February. The St Kitts and Nevis star joins British Olympic relay gold medallists Jason Gardener and Mark Lewis-Francis. Sydney Olympic 100m champion and world indoor record holder Maurice Greene and Athens Olympic 100m silver medallist Francis Obikwelu will also take part. Collins ran in Birmingham at the 2003 World Indoor Championships. "I'm looking forward to competing against such a strong field," he said. "I got a great reception form the crowd at the NIA when I won my 60m world indoor silver medal in 2003 and it will be really exciting to return to this venue." The world champion says he's in good shape but he isn't underestimating the home competition. "Jason Gardener and Mark Lewis-Francis are Olympic gold medallists now and I'm sure they'll be aiming to win in front of their home supporters. "I'm looking forward to competing against Britain's best sprinters and I'm sure the 60 metres will be one of the most exciting races of the evening." Collins was sixth in the Olympic final in Athens but is hoping for a better result at the World Championships in Finland this summer. "This will be a big year for me and I plan to defend my 100m world title in Helsinki in August. Before then I want to perform well over 60m indoors and start my year in winning form."
Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said he has no regrets after his second-string side lost 3-0 away at Fenerbahce in the Champions League. Ferguson said: "The good thing about being manager is that you are in control of which team to pick. "I care about United, that's important, so while I am disappointed at the result I am not at the team I selected. "This game was important for the young lads. They will remember it and next time they come they will be better." Ferguson admitted his side were well-beaten by the Turks, a result which meant they finished second in Group D behind Lyon. He added: "They'll know not to play like that again. We showed a lack of strength. But I have no complaints about the scoreline. "In the second half we had some good moments in attack. And in that situation, you have to take one chance. "But we didn't do that, so the game just petered out for us. "I didn't think it made much difference whether we won the group or finished second and I still don't. "We could get Inter, AC Milan and Juventus but Bayern, Barcelona and Real Madrid were among the runners-up. All we can do is let fate decide how it works out."
Chelsea have sacked Adrian Mutu after he failed a drugs test. The 25-year-old tested positive for a banned substance - which he later denied was cocaine - in October. Chelsea have decided to write off a possible transfer fee for Mutu, a £15.8m signing from Parma last season, who may face a two-year suspension. A statement from Chelsea explaining the decision read:"We want to make clear that Chelsea has a zero tolerance policy towards drugs." Mutu scored six goals in his first five games after arriving at Stamford Bridge but his form went into decline and he was frozen out by coach Jose Mourinho. Chelsea's statement added: "This applies to both performance-enhancing drugs or so-called 'recreational' drugs. They have no place at our club or in sport. "In coming to a decision on this case, Chelsea believed the club's social responsibility to its fans, players, employees and other stakeholders in football regarding drugs was more important than the major financial considerations to the company. "Any player who takes drugs breaches his contract with the club as well as Football Association rules. "The club totally supports the FA in strong action on all drugs cases." Fifa's disciplinary code stipulates that a first doping offence should be followed by a six-month ban. And the sport's world governing body has re-iterated their stance over Mutu's failed drugs test, maintaining it is a matter for the domestic sporting authorities. "Fifa is not in a position to make any comment on the matter until the
Matt Williams insists he has no thoughts of quitting as national coach as a result of the power struggle currently gripping Scottish rugby. The chairman, chief executive and three non-executive directors all departed in a row over the game's future direction. But Williams said: "I want to make it clear that I'm committed totally to Scottish rugby. "I've brought my family here and we've immersed ourselves in Scottish life. There's no way that I'm walking away." However, he attempted to steer clear of taking sides in the dispute. "I'd like to stress that the national team is separate to the political situation," he said. "When you come to an undertaking like this and you are trying to make a difference then there are always people who will begrudge you, who are jealous and want to try to drag you down. "When you have that situation, you have to have the courage of your convictions to see it through. "There was some very unhelpful and uninformed comment that the national team had received a massive increase in budget at the expense of other parts of Scottish rugby and that is simply not the case. "Like all good coaches, you go and ask for an increase. But we were told in no uncertain terms that the financial situation did not allow that. "The idea that we are lighting cigars with £20 notes while the rest of Scottish rugby flounders is absolutely untrue. "We also attracted criticism because of the number of days
Wales coach Mike Ruddock says John Yapp has what it takes as an international. The 21-year-old Blues prop is the only uncapped player in Wales' Six Nations squad, gaining a chance in the absence of Ospreys loose-head Duncan Jones. "John is a young man with a big future. He has been playing with the Blues for two years and has racked up mileage on his playing clock," said Ruddock. "He has international size, is a big, physical lad and a good ball-carrier with a high tackle-count." Ruddock's assessment was backed up by Yapp's coach at the Blues, former Wales and Lions prop Dai Young. "John's been on an upward curve all season and is going from strength to strength," Young told BBC Sport Wales. "His ball carrying gives us good go-forward, he impresses in defence and his work-rate is excellent. "He's working hard on his scrummaging technique, which he is keen to improve to become a destroyer on the loose-head. "To be fair to him he's not quite there with the scrummaging yet, but nobody can fault his effort, commitment and attitude. "John's a very strong man and is eager for the challenge, if he's pitched in he won't let anyone down. "He's developing quickly, but I hope he isn't pushed too quickly in a way that would hurt his development." Ruddock hopes that the selection of Yapp and Dragons lock Ian Gough - out of the international reckoning since falling out with former coach Steve Hansen - will send
Premiership side Newcastle United face a trip to Ryman Premier League leaders Yeading in the FA Cup third round. The game - arguably the highlight of the draw - is a potential money-spinner for non-League Yeading, who beat Slough in the second round. Conference side Exeter City, who knocked out Doncaster on Saturday, will travel to Old Trafford to meet holders Manchester United in January. Arsenal were drawn at home to Stoke and Chelsea will play host to Scunthorpe. The only other non-League side in the draw are Hinckley United, who held Brentford to a goalless draw on Sunday. They will meet League One leaders Luton if they win their replay against Martin Allen's team at Griffin Park. A number of Premiership teams face difficult away games against Championship sides on the weekend of 8/9 January. Third-placed Everton visit Plymouth, Liverpool travel to Burnley, Crystal Palace go to Sunderland, Fulham face Carling Cup semi-finalists Watford, Bolton meet Ipswich, while Aston Villa were drawn against Sheffield United. Premiership strugglers Norwich, Blackburn, West Brom are away at West Ham, Cardiff and Preston North End respectively. Southampton visit Northampton, having already beaten the League Two side in the Carling Cup earlier this season. Middlesbrough were drawn away against either Swindon or Notts County, while Spurs entertain Brighton at White Hart Lane. Arsenal v Stoke Swindon/Notts Co v Middlesbrough Man Utd v Exeter Plymouth v Everton Leicester v Blackpool Derby v Wigan Sunderland v Crystal Palace Wolves v Millwall Yeading v Newcastle Hull v
An investigation into doping claims against Marion Jones has been opened by the International Olympic Committee. IOC president Jacques Rogge has set up a disciplinary body to look into claims by Victor Conte, of Balco Laboratories. Jones, who says she is innocent, could lose all her Olympic medals after Conte said he gave her performance-enhancing drugs before the Sydney Olympics. But Rogge said it was too early to speculate about that, hoping only that "the truth will emerge". Any decision on the medals would be taken by the IOC's executive board and could hinge on interpretation of a rule stating that Olympic decisions can only be challenged within three years of the Games closing. The Sydney Olympics ended more than four years ago, but World Anti-Doping Agency chief Dick Pound said the rule may not apply because the allegations are only coming out now. "We will find a way to deal with that," Pound said. In a statement released through her attorney Rich Nichols, Jones repeated her innocence and vowed she would be cleared. "Victor Conte's allegations are not true and the truth will be revealed for the world to see as the legal process moves forward," she said. "Conte is someone who is under federal indictment and has a record of issuing contradictory, inconsistent statements."
England forward Michael Owen has told the BBC he is happy in Spain and has no plans to quit Real Madrid to return to the Premiership in the near future. But the 25-year-old, who has spent much of his time coming off the bench in La Liga, did not rule out a return to the Premiership at some stage. "I'm pleased with the start I've made here," he told BBC Radio Five Live. "England is my country. It's definitely part of me but who knows whether, if or when I'll be playing there again." Owen, who moved to the Bernabeu from Liverpool last summer, has grabbed 11 goals for Real but has been unable to replace Raul or Ronaldo in the starting line-up. However, he said he was delighted with the way his time in Spain was going and dismissed criticism of his decision to join Real. "When I first came there was a lot of scepticism back in England, any maybe some out here," he said. "People were saying 'fourth-choice striker, what are you going there for? You'll be sat on the bench all the time'. "But as much as our press like to build it up as if I've permanently had my backside on the bench, I've played as many games as anyone else in the team this year. "For a fourth-choice striker at the start I'm more than happy with the way I've settled in." Recent speculation has linked Owen with a move back to England, with
Climate change and the fight against Aids are leading the list of concerns for the first day of the World Economic Forum in the Swiss resort of Davos. Some 2,000 business and political leaders from around the globe will listen to UK Prime Minister Tony Blair's opening speech on Wednesday. Mr Blair will focus on Africa's development plans and global warming. Earlier in the day came an update on efforts to have 3 million people on anti-Aids drugs by the end of 2005. The World Health Organisation (WHO) said 700,000 people in poor countries were on life-extending drugs - up from 440,000 six months earlier but amounting to only 12% of the 5.8 million who needed them. A $2bn "funding gap" still stood in the way of hitting the 2005 target, the WHO said. The themes to be stressed by Mr Blair - whose attendance was announced at the last minute - are those he wants to dominate the UK's chairmanship of the G8 group of industrialised states. Other issues to be discussed at the five-day conference range from China's economic power to Iraq's future after this Sunday's elections. Aside from Mr Blair, more than 20 other world leaders are expected to attend including French President Jacques Chirac - due to speak by video link after bad weather delayed his helicopter - and South African President Thabo Mbeki, whose arrival has been delayed by Ivory Coast peace talks. The Ukraine's new president, Viktor Yushchenko, will also be there - as
The former chief financial officer at US telecoms firm WorldCom has admitted before a New York court that he used to lie to fellow board members. Speaking at the trial of his former boss Bernard Ebbers, Scott Sullivan said he lied to the board to cover up the hole in WorldCom's finances. Mr Ebbers is on trial for fraud and conspiracy in relation to WorldCom's collapse in 2002. He pleads not guilty. The firm had been overstating its accounts by $11bn (£8.5bn). Mr Sullivan, 42, has already pleaded guilty to fraud and will be sentenced following Mr Ebbers' trial, where he is appearing as a prosecution witness. Mr Ebbers, 63, has always insisted that he was unaware of any hidden shortfalls in WorldCom's finances. In the New York court on Wednesday, Mr Ebbers' lawyer Reid Weingarten asked Mr Sullivan: "If you believe something is in your interest, you are willing and able to lie to accomplish it, isn't that right?" "On that date, yes. I was lying," replied Mr Sullivan. Mr Weingarten has suggested that Mr Sullivan is implicating Mr Ebbers only to win a lighter sentence, something Mr Sullivan denies. Mr Sullivan also rejects a suggestion that he had once told fellow WorldCom board member Bert Roberts that Mr Ebbers was unaware of the accounting fraud at WorldCom. The trial of Mr Ebbers is now into its third week. Under 23 hours of questioning from a federal prosecutor, Mr Sullivan has previously told the court that he repeatedly warned
A slimming aid made from a southern African cactus is set to be developed by UK firm Phytopharm and Unilever. Anglo-Dutch food giant Unilever will help the pharmaceutical firm develop the snacks containing Hoodia extract. Phytopharm shares jumped 10.7% on the news, with analysts saying sales of $600m (£309m) a year were possible. The plant, licensed to Phytopharm in 1997, has been used for thousands of years by the Sans bushmen of the Kalahari desert to stave off hunger. Studies have reportedly shown the plant curbs appetite instead of reducing calorific intake like many existing products. Phytopharm will receive an initial fee of £6.5m from Unilever - out of a potential total of £21m - as well as future royalties on product sales. Under the deal, production of the Hoodia cactus at Phytopharm's nursery in South Africa will also rise from eight million plants to potentially hundreds of millions, said Phytopharm chief executive Richard Dixey. The firm had initially hoped to market a slimming drug from Hoodia with Pfizer. But the research collaboration came to an end in 2003. Analysts said Unilever could launch the new products in 2007. "This deal goes a long way to restoring the market faith in Phytopharm's pipeline after the Pfizer exit," said analyst Erling Refsum at Nomura.
The Brazilian government has played down claims that it could step in to save the country's biggest airline. Brazil's airport authority chief Carlos Wilson had claimed the government was on the brink of stepping in to save Varig, Brazil's flagship airline. However, the country's vice president Jose Alencar has said the government still is looking for a solution. Varig is struggling under a huge debt burden of an estimated debt of 6.5 billion reais ($2.3bn or £1.2bn). Asked whether a rescue was on the cards following a meeting of the country's Congress to discuss the airline's crisis, Mr Alencar replied: "No, I don't think so. We will see." Earlier, Mr Wilson had said that president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has decided to step in and a decree of some kind of intervention could be signed this week. "In practice, it will be an intervention, although this is not the technical name used", he said. An intervention means that the government would take administrative control of the company and its finances. For that to happen Varig's main shareholder, the non-profit Ruben Berta Foundation which represents the airline's employees, would have to be removed, Mr Wilson said. However, no jobs would be lost and the airline would keep on flying, he added. Varig, which operates in 18 countries apart from Brazil, has been driven to the brink of collapse because of the country's economic downturn. The depreciation of Brazil's currency has had a direct impact on the airline's dollar debt as
Iraq is to invite bids for two telephone licences, saying it wants to significantly boost nationwide coverage over the next decade. Bids have been invited from local, Arab and foreign companies, Iraq's Ministry of Communications said. The winner will work in partnership with the Iraqi Telecommunications and Post Company (ITPC). The firms will install and operate a fixed phone network, providing voice, fax and internet services. The ministry said that it wanted to increase Iraq's "very low telephone service penetration rate from about 4.5% today to about 25% within 10 years." It also hopes to develop a "highly visible and changeable telecommunication sector". Details of the bidding and tender process will be published on the ministry's website on 9 February. It also is planning a road-show for investors in Amman, Jordan. The ministry said it would base its selection on criteria including the speed of implementation, tariff rates, coverage, and the firm's experience and financial strength.
European Union finance ministers are meeting on Thursday in Brussels, where they are to discuss a controversial jet fuel tax. A levy on jet fuel has been suggested as a way to raise funds to finance aid for the world's poorest nations. Airlines and aviation bodies have reacted strongly against the plans, saying they would hurt companies at a time when earnings are under pressure. The EU said a tax would only be passed after full consultation with airlines. It was keen to point out earlier this week that any new tax on jet fuel should not hurt the "competitiveness of the airlines". Ministers will also be discussing reforms to regulations governing European public spending. Global leaders have focused attention on poverty reduction and development at recent meetings of the G7 Group and World Economic Forum. The world's richest countries have said they want to boost the amount of aid they give to 0.7% of their annual gross national income by 2015. Many EU ministers are thought to support the plan to tax jet fuel - tabled by France and Germany following the recent G7 meeting. At present, the fuel used by airlines enjoys either a very low tax rate or is untaxed in EU member states.
Investors who lost money following the split-capital investment trust scandal are to receive £194m compensation, the UK's financial watchdog has announced. Eighteen investment firms involved in the sale of the investments agreed the compensation package with the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Splits were marketed as a low-risk way to benefit from rising share prices. But when the stock market collapsed in 2000, the products left thousands of investors out of pocket. An estimated 50,000 people took out split-capital funds, some investing their life savings in the schemes. The paying of compensation will be overseen by an independent company, the FSA said. Further details of how investors will be able to claim their share of the compensation package will be announced in the new year. "This should save investors from having to take their case to the Financial Ombudsman Service, something, no doubt, that will be very welcome," Rob McIvor, FSA spokesman, told BBC News. Agreeing to pay compensation did not mean that the eighteen firms involved were admitting any guilt, the FSA added. Any investor accepting the compensation will have to waive the right to take their case to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The FSA has been investigating whether investors were misled about the risks posed by split-capital investment trusts. The FSA's 60 strong investigation team looked into whether fund managers colluded in a so-called "magic circle", in the hope of propping up one another's share prices. Firms involved were presented with 780 files of evidence detailing 27,000 taped conversations
The UK economy grew by an estimated 3.1% in 2004 after accelerating in the last quarter of the year, says the Office for National Statistics (ONS). The figure is in line with Treasury and Bank of England forecasts. The ONS says gross domestic product (GDP) rose by a strong 0.7% in the three months to 31 December, compared with 0.5% in the previous quarter. The rise came despite a further decline in production output and the worst Christmas for retailers in decades. The annual figure marked out the best year since 2000, and was also well ahead of the 2.2% recorded in 2003. Growth in the final three months of 2004 marked the 50th consecutive quarter of expansion. "On the basis of the latest information the UK has entered 2005 on course to continue its record period of growth," said Paul Boateng, chief secretary to the Treasury in a statement. The ONS said the services sector, which accounts for nearly three-quarters of the UK economy, grew 1.0% in the quarter. The strong services figure was welcomed by analysts, given lacklustre retail sales in December and across the Christmas holiday period. "The fact that other services components are doing so well suggests to me that we are back to trend (growth) and I am not particularly concerned about any further slowdown," said Ross Walker, UK economist at RBS Financial Markets. However, output in the production sector contracted 0.5%, the second quarterly fall in row and a state of affairs that some
US retail sales fell 0.3% in January, the biggest monthly decline since last August, driven down by a heavy fall in car sales. The 3.3% fall in car sales had been expected, coming after December's 4% rise in car sales, fuelled by generous pre-Christmas special offers. Excluding the car sector, US retail sales were up 0.6% in January, twice what some analysts had been expecting. US retail spending is expected to rise in 2005, but not as quickly as in 2004. Steve Gallagher, US chief economist at SG Corporate & Investment Banking, said January's figures were "decent numbers". "We are not seeing the numbers that we saw in the second half of 2004, but they are still pretty healthy," he added. Sales at appliance and electronic stores were down 0.6% in January, while sales at hardware stores dropped by 0.3% and furniture store sales dipped 0.1%. Sales at clothing and clothing accessory stores jumped 1.8%, while sales at general merchandise stores, a category that includes department stores, rose by 0.9%. These strong gains were in part put down to consumers spending gift vouchers they had been given for Christmas. Sales at restaurants, bars and coffee houses rose by 0.3%, while grocery store sales were up 0.5%. In December, overall retail sales rose by 1.1%. Excluding the car sector, sales rose by just 0.3%. Parul Jain, deputy chief economist at Nomura Securities International, said consumer spending would continue to rise in 2005, only at a slower rate of growth than in
General Motors (GM) saw its net profits fall 37% in the last quarter of 2004, as it continued to be hit by losses at its European operations. The US giant earned $630m (£481.5m) in the October-to-December period, down from $1bn in the fourth quarter of 2003. GM's revenues rose 4.7% to $51.2bn from $48.8bn a year earlier. The fourth-quarter losses at General Motors Europe totalled $345m, up from $66m during the same period in 2003. GM's main European brands are Opel and Vauxhall. Excluding special items, GM's global income from continuing operations totalled $569m during the quarter, down from $838m a year earlier. The results were in line with Wall Street expectations and shares in GM rose by about 1% in pre-market trade. For the whole of 2004, GM earned $3.7bn, down from $3.8bn in 2003, while its annual revenue rose 4.5% to $193bn. GM said its profits were also hit by higher healthcare costs in the US. "GM reported solid overall results in 2004, despite challenging competitive conditions in many markets around the globe," GM chairman and chief executive Rick Wagoner said in a statement. The company recently announced that it expected profits in 2005 to be lower than in 2004.
US president George W Bush has pledged to introduce a "tough" federal budget next February in a bid to halve the country's deficit in five years. The US budget and its trade deficit are both deep in the red, helping to push the dollar to lows against the euro and fuelling fears about the economy. Mr Bush indicated there would be "strict discipline" on non-defence spending in the budget. The vow to cut the deficit had been one of his re-election declarations. The federal budget deficit hit a record $412bn (£211.6bn) in the 12 months to 30 September and $377bn in the previous year. "We will submit a budget that fits the times," Mr Bush said. "It will provide every tool and resource to the military, will protect the homeland, and meet other priorities of the government." The US has said it is committed to a strong dollar. But the dollar's weakness has hit European and Asian exporters and lead to calls for US intervention to boost the currency. Mr Bush, however, has said the best way to halt the dollar's slide is to deal with the US deficit. "It's a budget that I think will send the right signal to the financial markets and to those concerned about our short-term deficits," Mr Bush added. "As well, we've got to deal with the long-term deficit issues."
Pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson has agreed to buy medical technology firm Guidant for $25.4bn (£13bn). Guidant is a key producer of equipment that combats heart problems such as implant defibrillators and pacemakers. Analysts said that the deal is aimed at offsetting Johnson & Johnson's reliance on a slowing drug business. They also pointed out that more mergers are likely because the drug and healthcare industries are fragmented and are under pressure to cut costs. A number of Johnson & Johnson's products are facing patent expirations, while the company is also battling fierce competition from generic products. Meanwhile, demand for defibrillators, which give the heart a small electric shock when an irregular heartbeat or rhythm is detected, is expected to increase, analysts said. The move by Johnson & Johnson has been widely expected and the firm will pay $76 for each Guidant share, 6% more than Wednesday's closing price. Analysts say that US antitrust regulators could force the firms to shed some overlapping stent operations. Stents are tubes that are used to keep an artery open after it has been unblocked.
Shares in Multiplex Group, which is building the new Wembley stadium, fell as much as 19% after it said it would not make any money on the project. The Australian firm said it would only break even on the 1.2bn Australian dollars (£458m; $874m) rebuild, after a rise in costs on the work. Any profits would depend on the outcome of legal cases resulting from a change in steel contractor, it added. It cut A$68m from profit targets for Wembley and another UK project. Investors were shaken by the news and the firm's shares fell to a four month low of A$4.50, before recovering to close 16% down at A$4.67. The decline came despite Multiplex reporting an 11% rise in pre-tax profits to A$67.7m for 2004 and reaffirming its 2005 profit forecasts. Increased costs at Wembley and a separate development in London's Docklands saw Multiplex's construction division report profits of A$35.1m. The firm said the result was below expectations but stressed that the majority of its UK projects - which also include the White City redevelopment scheme in west London - were performing strongly. To recoup any profit from Wembley, where the firm changed its steel contractor due to a legal dispute, Multiplex will have to win legal claims against subcontractors. These claims could take up to two years to resolve. "Multiplex believes its claim are sound and ultimately will exceed the level needed to support the break even position," it said. "It is expected that profits will be possible
Indonesian, Indian and Hong Kong stock markets reached record highs. Investors seemed to feel that some of the worst-affected areas were so under-developed that the tragedy would have little impact on Asia's listed firms. "Obviously with a lot of loss of life, a lot of time is needed to clean up the mess, bury the people and find the missing," said ABN Amro's Eddie Wong. "[But] it's not necessarily a really big thing in the economic sense." India's Bombay Stock Exchange inched slightly above its previous record close on Wednesday. Expectations of strong corporate earnings in 2005 drove the Indonesian stock exchange in Jakarta to a record high on Wednesday. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index may be benefiting in part from the potential for its listed property companies to gain from rebuilding contracts in the tsunami-affected regions of South East Asia. In Sri Lanka, some economists have said that as much as 1% of annual growth may be lost. Sri Lanka's stock market has fallen about 5% since the weekend, but it is still 40% higher than at the start of 2004. Thailand may lose 30bn baht (£398m; $768m) in earnings from tourism over the next three months, according to tourism minister Sontaya Kunplome. In the affected provinces, he expects the loss of tourism revenue to be offset by government reconstruction spending. Thailand intends to spend a similar sum - around 30bn baht - on the rebuilding work. "It will take until the fourth quarter of next year
Oil prices have fallen heavily for a second day, closing at three-month lows after news that US crude stocks have improved ahead of winter. London Brent crude closed at $40.15 on Thursday - a drop of 5.1% - having dived below $40 a barrel for the first time since mid-September. US light crude traded in New York lost more than $2 to $43.25, its lowest close since 10 September. The price of both benchmark crudes has dropped 12% in two days. The falls were triggered when the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said on Wednesday that US crude stocks were 3.5% higher than a year ago. The news calmed worries about winter shortages. Weak US fuel and heating oil stocks have been a persistent factor in pushing up oil prices. "It's amazing how quickly sentiment changed," said Rick Mueller, an analyst at Energy Security Analysis. Analysts also attributed the fall to mild early-winter weather, which has tempered demand for heating oil. The stronger fuel inventories helped boost US stock markets to nine-month highs on Wednesday, though only the Nasdaq index had hung onto those gains by the end of Thursday. In London, the FTSE 100 index closed 15 points higher at 4,751. The long-awaited drop in oil prices helped to ease persistent investor jitters over the impact of energy costs on company profits and economic growth. However, traders warned that the fall could be short-lived if there is a cold snap in North America this winter or any major supply problems
South Korea looks set to sustain its revival thanks to renewed private consumption, its central bank says. The country's economy has suffered from an overhang of personal debt after its consumers' credit card spending spree. Card use fell sharply last year, but is now picking up again with a rise in spending of 14.8% year-on-year. "The economy is now heading upward rather than downward," said central bank governor Park Seung. "The worst seems to have passed." Mr Park's statement came as the bank decided to keep interest rates at an all-time low of 3.25%. It had cut rates in November to help revive the economy, but rising inflation - reaching 0.7% month-on-month in January - has stopped it from cutting further. Economic growth in 2004 was about 4.7%, with the central bank predicting 4% growth this year. Other indicators are also suggesting that the country is inching back towards economic health. Exports - traditionally the driver for expansion in Asian economies - grew slower in January than at any time in 17 months. But domestic demand seems to be taking up the slack. Consumer confidence has bounced back from a four-year low in January, and retail sales were up 2.1% in December. Credit card debt is falling, with only one in 13 of the 48 million cards now in default - down from one in eight at the end of 2003. One of its biggest card issuers, LG Card, was rescued from collapse in December, having almost imploded under the
Traders at US banking giant Citigroup are facing a criminal investigation in Germany over a controversial bond deal. The deal saw the sale of 11bn euros ($14.4bn; £7.6bn) of government bonds in a few minutes on 2 August, with 4bn euros-worth then bought back later. The move was widely criticised at the time, and now the German regulator has said it has found evidence of possible market manipulation. Citigroup said it would continue to co-operate fully with the authorities. "We are disappointed that the BaFin has referred to the prosecutor the question of whether action should be brought against individuals involved," Citigroup said. If the traders are found guilty, they could face a five-year jail term or a fine, Reuters reported BaFin as saying. However, under German criminal law, prosecutors cannot pursue Citigroup itself. Germany's financial watchdog BaFin told BBC News it had now transferred the investigation to the public prosecutor. "I can confirm that BaFin has passed through the case to the public prosecutor," a BaFin spokeswoman said. "It is now a criminal investigation." "We found clues of possible market manipulation," the spokeswoman said, which included signs of linked bond trading ahead of the main trades on 2 August. "Germany's Securities Trading Act says that if BaFin finds such clues, it has to put the case in the hands of the prosecutor." Regulatory investigations are still going on in France, the UK and elsewhere. Some Citigroup operations elsewhere in the world came under regulatory criticism in 2004. Its private
Shares in Saudi Arabia's National Company for Cooperative Insurance (NCCI) soared on their first day of trading in Riyadh. They were trading 84% above the offer price on Monday, changing hands at 372 riyals ($99; £53) after topping 400 early in the day. Demand for the insurer's debut shares was strong - 12 times what was on sale. The listing was part of the country's plans to open up its insurance market and boost demand in the sector. Deregulation is expected to boost demand for accident and damage cover. Previously, only NCCI has been legally allowed to offer insurance products within Saudi Arabia. However, the authorities have turned a blind eye to the many other firms selling insurance. Saudi Arabia now wants a fully functioning insurance industry and is introducing legislation that will clamp down on unauthorised companies. Policy-makers also want to make having insurance more of a requirement, but first have to take steps to boost public confidence in the system, analysts said. As a result, NCCI is being developed as the industry's flagship firm - publicly-listed, with audited accounts. Saudi Arabia sold 7 million NCCI shares, or about 70% of the company's total capital last month. More than 800,000 applicants got 9 shares each for 205 riyals apiece.
A major reform of Brazil's bankruptcy laws has been approved by the country's Congress, in a move which it is hoped will cut the cost of borrowing. The bill, proposed in 1993, has finally been approved by the leadership of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. The old law, dating from 1945, gave priority first to workers, second to tax revenue and finally to creditors. The new legislation changes this, giving priority to creditors and limiting payments to workers. The new regulations will limit payments to workers to 150 times the minimum monthly salary, which is currently $94. The law also makes it more difficult for a company to declare bankruptcy. However, when a firm is declared bankrupt it will gain protection from creditors for 180 days while a recovery plan is worked out. The proposals were opposed in the past by leftist parties, including Mr Lula's Worker Party. They considered that they undermined workers' rights. But President Lula became a defender of the reforms, arguing that the country's bank lending margins were among the highest in the world and were damaging the economy. According to Andreas Adriano of Latin Trade Magazine, the new bankruptcy law will help in reducing the spread - difference between the interest rates of the banks and federal bonds. Nevertheless, Mr Adriano said to reduce the basic interest rate the Central Bank needs to change its policy, focusing not only on inflation but also on economic growth.
The European Commission has written to the mobile phone operators Vodafone and T-Mobile to challenge "the high rates" they charge for international roaming. In letters sent to the two companies, the Commission alleged the firms were abusing their dominant market position in the German mobile phone market. It is the second time Vodafone has come under the Commission's scrutiny. The UK operator is already appealing against allegations that its UK roaming rates are "unfair and excessive". Vodafone's response to the Commission's letter was defiant. "We believe the roaming market is competitive and we expect to resist the charges," said a Vodafone spokesman. "However we will need time to examine the statement of objections in detail before we formally respond." The Commission's investigation into Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile centres on the tariffs the two companies charge foreign mobile operators to access their networks when subscribers of those foreign operators use their mobile phones in Germany. The Commission believes these wholesale prices are too high and that the excess is passed on to consumers. "The Commission aims to ensure that European consumers are not overcharged when they use their mobile phones on their travels around the European Union," the Commission said in a statement. Vodafone and O2, Britain's other big mobile phone operator, were sent similar statements of objections by the Commission in July last year. Vodafone sent the Commission a response to those allegations in December last year and is now waiting for a reply. The Vodafone spokesman said a
The International Monetary Fund is to cut its 2005 growth forecast for the German economy from 1.8% to 0.8%, the Financial Times Deutschland reported. The IMF will also reduce its growth estimate for the 12-member eurozone economy from 2.2% to 1.6%, the newspaper reported. The German economy has been faltering, with unemployment levels rising to a seventy-year high of 5.2 million. Its sluggish performance continues to hamper the entire eurozone. The IMF's draft World Economic Outlook - due to be published in April - would point to a marked deterioration in Germany's economy, the FT report said. In September, the IMF had said that German growth for the current year would be 1.8%. The IMF has also revised eurozone forecasts, the paper said, taking into account high oil prices, the strength of the euro and weak demand in many of the world's leading economies. Europe's economic difficulties have been highlighted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which argued in a report published on Tuesday that the continent could only achieve US living standards by freeing up its labour markets. "The eurozone does not look like it has a self-sustaining recovery," James Carrick, an economist with ABN Amro, told the newspaper. "It is too dependant on the rest of the world."
Latin America's economy grew by 5.5% in 2004, its best performance since 1980, while exports registered their best performance in two decades. The United Nations' Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean said the region grew by 5.5% this year. The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) said regional exports reached $445.1bn (£227bn;331bn euros) in 2004. Doubts about the strength of the US recovery and overheating of the Chinese economy do however pose risks for 2005. Both organisations also warned that high oil prices raise the risk of either inflation or recession. Nevertheless, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) still forecasts growth of 4% for 2005. Strong recovery in some countries, such as Venezuela and Uruguay, boosted the overall performance of the region. ECLAC also said that the six largest Latin American economies (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela) grew by more than 3% for only the second time in 20 years. Chinese and US economic strength helped boost exports, as did strong demand for agricultural and mining products. In fact, Latin American exports to China grew 34%, to $14bn. Higher oil prices also helped boost exports, as Mexico and Venezuela are important oil exporters. Regional blocs as well as free trade agreements with the US contributed to the region's strong performance, the IADB said.
Rising oil prices and the sinking dollar hit shares on Monday after a finance ministers' meeting and stern words from Fed chief Alan Greenspan. The London FTSE fell 0.8% while Tokyo's Nikkei 225 dropped 2.11%, its steepest fall in three months. G20 finance ministers said nothing about supporting the dollar, whose slide could further jeopardise growth in Japan and Europe. And Mr Greenspan warned Asian states could soon stop funding the US deficit. On Monday afternoon, the euro was close to an all-time high against the dollar at above $1.30. Oil pushed higher too on Monday, as investors fretted about cold weather in the US and Europe and a potential output cut from oil producers' group Opec, although prices had cooled by the end of the day. In London, the benchmark Brent crude price closed down 51 cents at $44.38 a barrel, while New York light sweet crude closed down 25 cents at $48.64 a barrel. The slide comes as the US has been attempting to talk up the traditional "strong dollar" policy. The latest to pitch in has been President George W Bush himself, who told the Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation (Apec) summit in Chile that he remained committed to halving the budget deficit. Together with a $500bn trade gap, the red ink spreading across America's public finances is widely seen as a key factor driving the dollar lower. And last week US Treasury Secretary John Snow told an audience in the UK that the policy remained unaltered. But
More than 5.2 million Germans were out of work in February, new figures show. The figure of 5.216 million people, or 12.6% of the working-age population, is the highest jobless rate in Europe's biggest economy since the 1930s. The news comes as the head of Germany's panel of government economic advisers predicted growth would again stagnate. Speaking on German TV, Bert Ruerup said the panel's earlier forecast of 1.4% was too optimistic and warned growth would be just 1% in 2005. The German government is trying to tackle the stubbornly-high levels of joblessness with a range of labour market reforms. At their centre is the "Hartz-IV" programme introduced in January to shake up welfare benefits and push people back into work - even if some of the jobs are heavily subsidised. The latest unemployment figures look set to increase the pressure on the government. Widely leaked to the German newspapers a day in advance, they produced screaming headlines criticising Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrat-Green Party administration. Mr Schroeder had originally come into office promising to halve unemployment. Still, some measures suggest the picture is not quite so bleak. The soaring official unemployment figure follows a change in the methodology which pushed up the jobless rate by more than 500,000 in January. Adjusted for seasonal changes, the overall unemployment rate is 4.875 million people or 11.7%, up 0.3 percentage points from the previous month. Using the most internationally-accepted methodology of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Germany had 3.97 million people out
Shares in Irish oil company Petrel Resources have lost more than 50% of their value on a report that the firm has failed to win a contract in Iraq. Reuters news agency reported that Iraq's Oil Ministry has awarded the first post-war oilfield contracts to a Canadian and a Turkish company. By 1700 GMT, Petrel's shares fell from 97p ($1.87) to 44p ($0.85). Petrel said that it has not received any information from Iraqi authorities to confirm or deny the report. Iraq is seeking to award contracts for three projects, valued at $500m (£258.5m). Turkey's Everasia is reported by Reuters to have won a contract to develop the Khurmala Dome field in the north of the country. A Canadian company, named IOG, is reported to have won the contract to run the Himrin field. Ironhorse Oil and Gas has denied to Reuters that it is the company in question. These two projects aim to develop Khurmala field to produce 100,000 barrels per day and raise the output of Himrin. The winners of the contract are to build new flow lines and build gas separation stations. The contract to develop the Suba-Luhais field has not yet been awarded as Iraq's Oil Ministry is studying the offers. If Iraq's cabinet approves the oil ministry's choice of companies, then this will be the first deal that Iraq has signed with a foreign oil company. Iraq is still trying to boost its production capacity to match levels last seen in the eighties, before the
Oracle has announced it is cutting about 5,000 jobs following the completion of its $10.3bn takeover of its smaller rival Peoplesoft last week. The company said it would retain more than 90% of Peoplesoft product development and product support staff. The cuts will affect about 9% of the 55,000 staff of the combined companies. Oracle's 18-month fight to acquire Peoplesoft was one of the most drawn-out and hard-fought US takeover battles of recent times. The merged companies are set to be a major force in the enterprise software market, second only in size to Germany's SAP. In a statement, Oracle said it began notifying staff of redundancies on Friday and the process would continue over the next 10 days. "By retaining the vast majority of Peoplesoft technical staff, Oracle will have the resources to deliver on the development and support commitments we have made to Peoplesoft customers over the last 18 months," Oracle's chief executive Larry Ellison said in a statement. Correspondents say 6,000 job losses had been expected - and some suggest more cuts may be announced in future. They say Mr Ellison may be trying to placate Peoplesoft customers riled by Oracle's determined takeover strategy. Hours before Friday's announcement, there was a funereal air at Peoplesoft's headquarters, reported AP news agency. A Peoplesoft sign had been turned into shrine to the company, with flowers, candles and company memorabilia. "We're mourning the passing of a great company," the agency quoted Peoplesoft worker David Ogden as saying. Other employees said
US prosecutors have charged nine food suppliers with helping Dutch retailer Ahold inflate earnings by more than $800m (£428m). The charges have been brought against individuals as well as companies, alleging they created false accounts. Ahold hit the headlines in February 2003 after it emerged that there were accounting irregularities at its US subsidiary Foodservice. Three former Ahold top executives last year agreed to settle fraud charges. Ahold has admitted that it fraudulently inflated promotional allowances at Foodservice, improperly consolidated joint ventures and also committed other accounting errors and irregularities. The nine now charged, who worked as suppliers to Ahold, are accused of signing false documents relating to the amount of money they paid the retailer for promoting their products in its stores. Food companies pay supermarkets and retailers for prime shelf space. The suppliers in question are said to have inflated the amount of money they paid, providing auditors with signed letters that allowed Ahold to inflate its earnings. US Attorney David Kelley said he expects the nine vendors will plead guilty to the charges. He added that there may be more court actions in the future. "I don't want to leave you with the impression that these were the only ones involved," he said. Among those facing charges are John Nettle, a former employee of General Mills; Mark Bailin of Rymer International Seafood; Tim Daly of Michael Foods and Kenneth Bowman, who worked as an independent contractor for Total Foods. Others include Michael Hannigan of Sugar Foods; Peter
Circuit City Stores, the second-largest electronics retailer in the US, has received a $3.25bn (£1.7bn) takeover offer. The bid has come from Boston-based private investment firm Highfields Capital Management, which already owns 6.7% of Circuit City's shares. Shares in the retailer were up 19.6% at $17.04 in Tuesday morning trading in New York following the announcement. Highfield said that it intends to take the Virginia-based firm private. "Such a transformation would eliminate the public-company transparency into the company's operating strategy that is uniquely damaging in a highly competitive industry where Circuit City is going head-to-head with a tough and entrenched rival," Highfield said. One analyst suggested that a bidding battle may now begin for the company. Bill Armstrong, a retail analyst at CL King & Associates, said he expected to see other private investment firms come forward for Circuit City. The retailer is debt free with a good cash flow, despite the fact that it is said to be struggling to keep up with market leader Best Buy and cut-price competition from the likes of Wal-Mart, said Mr Armstrong.
Other things being equal, the notion of entrepreneurs languishing in jail while their companies are sold off for a song ought to be bad for business. But in the looking-glass world of modern Russia, the opposite might just be true, a new report* has argued. The study, from the Centre for Economic Policy Research, does not praise the rough handling of oil company Yukos. But it argues that more rigorous tax policing has benefited all Russian firms, even targets of the tax police. "An increase in tax enforcement can increase the amount [of dividends and other income] outside shareholders will receive, even accounting for increased levels of taxation," the authors say. The paper's reasoning is complex, and is based on a sophisticated model of the relationship between tax regimes and corporate governance - in particular, the propensity of management to steal from the company. The calculations demonstrated what many Russian analysts already knew: that increasing the tax rate increases the amount that managers steal, since undeclared income becomes relatively more valuable. In the West, meanwhile, higher tax rates translate far more smoothly into higher government revenues. On the other hand, increasing the rigour with which taxes are collected encourages companies to become more transparent, forcing them to be able to demonstrate their financial position far more accurately. The net result, the authors say, is that the extra amount companies pay in tax is more than compensated for by greater efficiency and financial soundness. After Vladimir Putin became president in 2000,
The US stock market watchdog's chairman has said he is willing to soften tough new US corporate governance rules to ease the burden on foreign firms. In a speech at the London School of Economics, William Donaldson promised "several initiatives". European firms have protested that US laws introduced after the Enron scandal make Wall Street listings too costly. The US regulator said foreign firms may get extra time to comply with a key clause in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Act comes into force in mid-2005. It obliges all firms with US stock market listings to make declarations, which, critics say, will add substantially to the cost of preparing their annual accounts. Firms that break the new law could face huge fines, while senior executives risk jail terms of up to 20 years. Mr Donaldson said that although the Act does not provide exemptions for foreign firms, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) would "continue to be sensitive to the need to accomodate foreign structures and requirements". There are few, if any, who disagree with the intentions of the Act, which obliges chief executives to sign a statement taking responsibility for the accuracy of the accounts. But European firms with secondary listings in New York have objected - arguing that the compliance costs outweigh the benefits of a dual listing. The Act also applies to firms with more than 300 US shareholders, a situation many firms without US listings could find themselves in. The 300-shareholder threshold has drawn anger as it
US phone company Qwest has said it will table a new offer for MCI after losing out to larger rival Verizon, setting the scene for a possible bidding war. MCI accepted a $6.75bn (£3.6bn) buyout from telecoms giant Verizon on Monday, rejecting a higher offer from Qwest. Qwest chairman Richard Notebaert sent a letter to MCI's board on Thursday saying that it plans to submit a new offer after examining Verizon's bid. Formerly known as Worldcom, MCI is a long-distance and corporate phone firm. Snapping up MCI would give the buyer access to a global telecommunications network and a large number of business-based subscribers. Shares of MCI were up more than 4% in electronic trading after the close of New York markets. Qwest said on Wednesday that MCI had rejected a deal worth $8bn. "We would like to advise you that once we have completed our review of the Verizon merger agreement, we do intend to submit a modified offer to acquire MCI," the letter from Qwest said. Verizon's offer is made up of cash, shares and dividends, and a number of investors have said that it undervalues MCI. Verizon plans to swap 0.41 of its shares and $1.50 in cash for each MCI share, as well as offering special dividends of $4.50 a share. Both company boards have backed the deal, but regulators will still need to give their approval. As well as trying to lure investors with the promise of better returns, Qwest also reckons that its offer
The European Commission (EC) has called a truce in its battle with France and Germany over breaching deficit limits. The move came after France and Germany vowed to run their budget deficits below the EU cap in 2005 - for the first time in four years. But, the EC did warn the two were under close scrutiny and it would act if their fiscal situations deteriorated. Under EU rules, member countries must keep their deficits below 3%. France and Germany will breach that this year. It will be the third year in a row that the two countries have broken the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact rules. The eurozone's two biggest economies left the pact in tatters in November 2003 when they persuaded fellow EU members to put the threat of penalties for deficit breaches on hold. The commission then took the pair to the European Court of Human Justice - which ruled EU countries could not put the pact "in abeyance", and confirmed the EC's right to launch "excessive debt procedures". After announcing its decision to erase France and Germany from its list of deficit rule breakers, the EU said that the time lag created by the ruling meant that 2005 should be the target year for the pair to bring their budget's below 3%. "The commission concludes that the two countries appear to be on track to correct their excessive deficits by 2005," it said in a statement. The EU expects the German deficit to fall to
The US government is to investigate two airlines- US Airways and Delta Air Lines' Comair subsidiary - after travel chaos over the Christmas weekend. Staff calling in sick at US Airways and computer failures at Comair left 30,000 passengers stranded and 10,000 pieces of baggage undelivered. US Airways is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for the second time in two years, and battling to cut costs. It is currently trying to negotiate pay cuts with flight and baggage staff. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said he was "deeply concerned" at the disruption to passengers, and ordered a thorough investigation. Comair's computer breakdown plunged its flight-crew scheduling system into disarray. Altogether, some 1,100 flights were cancelled over the holiday long weekend. Mr Mineta said it was important to understand "what happened, why it happened and whether the carriers properly planned for the holiday travel period and responded appropriately to consumer needs in the aftermath". Adding to the atmosphere of chaos were mountains of luggage left to pile up when a third of US Airways' baggage handling staff called in sick. There was also a shortage of US Airways flight attendants, with nearly a fifth saying they were too sick to work, leading to many flight cancellations. However, union officials denied there had been a deliberate "sickout". They said that many people have flu at this time of year and that the airline is chronically understaffed. US Airways ended up cancelling over 100 flights on Christmas Day, stranding passengers in as many as
US rapper Snoop Dogg has been sued for $25m (£13m) by a make-up artist who claimed he and his entourage drugged and raped her two years ago. The woman said she was assaulted after a recording of the Jimmy Kimmel Live TV show on the ABC network in 2003. The rapper's spokesman said the allegations were "untrue" and the woman was "misusing the legal system as a means of extracting financial gain". ABC said the claims had "no merit". The star has not been charged by police. The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles on Friday, says the woman's champagne was spiked and she was then assaulted. The rapper's spokesperson said: "Snoop will have the opportunity to prove in a court of law that [the alleged victim] is opportunistic and deceitful. "We are confident that in this case, [the alleged victim's] claims against Snoop Dogg will be rejected." The lawsuit names Snoop Dogg - real name Calvin Broadus - plus three associates, The Walt Disney Company and its parent company ABC Inc. The woman waited two years to sue because she was trying to negotiate a settlement with the media companies, her lawyer, Perry Wander, said. Disney and ABC "failed to provide a safe working environment for my client," he said. The legal action comes after the rap star sued a woman who claimed they tried to blackmail him to keep quiet about an alleged assault. The 32-year-old rapper has enjoyed six US top 10 albums since bursting onto the music
The original stage production of The Sound of Music is to be performed for the first time in the Austrian capital, 40 years after the film was released. The first full-scale theatrical production of the musical will make its debut in Vienna on Saturday. Julie Andrews starred in the 1965 film version of the Rogers and Hammerstein classic set in the Alpine country. But despite being one of the most successful musicals of all time, it is barely known inside Austria. The film was never shown in any cinema in Austria and was not broadcast on television until the early 1990s. The musical is based on the true story of the von Trapp family who formed a singing troupe and escaped from Nazi-occupied Austria in 1938. Sensitivities about Nazism during wartime Austria and issues towards the von Trapp family themselves could explain Austria's reluctance to embrace the musical. Another source of irritation for Austrians is the song Edelweiss, which is considered an traditional folk song by many filmgoers. The song was actually an invention by Rodgers and Hammerstein. Many also consider the film to portray a kitsch image of Austria, including yodelling, goat-herds and lederhosen. The production is being staged at a Viennese opera house, the Volksoper, beginning on Saturday. Maria, the novice nun who falls in love with Baron von Trapp, will be played by Austro-Australian actress and singer Sandra Pires.
Brits success has helped return Keane's award-winning album Hopes and Fears back to the top of the UK album chart. The debut album, which took the best British album title at the Brits on Tuesday, moved up seven places from number eight to number one. Also capitalising on Brits success were the Scissor Sisters whose eponymous album moved three places to number two. U2's latest single Sometimes You Can't Make It On Your Own took the top spot in the singles chart, ahead of Elvis. The track, from their current album How To Dismantle An Atomic Bomb, pushed Eminem's Like Toy Soldiers from number one to number three. Elvis' Wooden Heart, which entered the chart at number two, is the sixth in a series of 18 reissues to mark the 70th anniversary of Presley's birth. There are currently six re-released Elvis' tracks occupying spots in the top 40 singles chart including Are You Lonesome Tonight at number 20, It's Now or Never at number 27 and Jailhouse Rock at number 37. Soldier, by Destiny's Child, Ti and Lil Wayne, debuted at number four, while Almost Here, the duet from former Westlife star Brian McFadden and Delta Goodrem, fell from number three to number five. There was more follow up to Brits success for Franz Ferdinand won best rock act and best British group last week. Their self-titled album moved from 13 to number four. Last week's number one album Tourist, by Athlete, fell to number three.
Digital music downloads are being included in the main US singles chart for the first time. Billboard's Hot 100 chart now incorporates data from sales of music downloads, previously only assigned to a separate download chart. Green Day's Boulevard of Broken Dreams is currently number two in Billboard's pop chart, and tops its digital chart. Download sales are due to be incorporated into the UK singles chart later this year. Digital sales in the US are already used to compile Billboard's Hot Digital Sales chart. They will now be tallied with sales of physical singles and airplay information to make up its new Hot 100 chart. Its second new chart - the Pop 100 - also combines airplay, digital and physical sales but confines its airplay information to US radio stations which play chart music. In addition to Green Day, other artists in the current US digital sales top 10 include Kelly Clarkson, The Game and the Killers. Sales of legally downloaded songs shot up more than tenfold in 2004, with 200 million track purchased online in the US and Europe in 12 months, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) reported last month. In the UK sales of song downloads overtook those for physical singles for the first time at the end of last year. The last week of December 2004 saw download sales of 312,000 compared with 282,000 physical singles, according to the British Phonographic Industry. The UK's first official music download chart was launched last September,
Murdered director Theo van Gogh's controversial film Submission has been pulled from the Rotterdam Film Festival because of security fears. It was one of three of his works to be shown as part of a freedom of expression event in tribute to the late film-maker's life. The film is critical of the treatment of women under Islam. Its TV screening is thought to have led to his murder. The 10-day Dutch festival begins on Wednesday. Submission was made with liberal Somali-Dutch politician Ayaan Hirsi Ali and was due to be shown on 30 January. Van Gogh was shot and stabbed to death in November 2004 several months after receiving death threats following Submission's first broadcast on Dutch television. Two of Van Gogh's other films will be shown as planned, including the theatrical world premiere of his last feature 06/05. Festival director Sandra den Hamer said: "The festival reflects what happens around us and within cinema itself." The festival opens with the French film The 10th District Court, Moments of Trials made by Raymond Depardon. The event sees 14 films competing to win three Top Tiger Awards which aim to introduce promising new talent. New sections added to this year's festival include Cinema of the Future and Cinema of the World, with special focus on Russian and south-east Asian productions. There is also an Iraqi-German offering entitled Underexposure, which looks at life in Iraq after Saddam Hussein.
The New York music studio where John Lennon spent his final hours is to close next month. The Hit Factory, which opened 37 years ago, has played host to some of the biggest stars in music, including Paul Simon, Madonna and David Bowie. However, the rise in digital recording has affected business at the studio, which is relocating to smaller premises in Miami. Lennon recorded his final album Double Fantasy at the studio in 1979. The studio was founded by Jerry Ragovoy in 1968. In 1975 it was sold to fellow producer Edward Germano, who turned it into a 100,000 square foot studio with seven recording rooms and live mastering suites. His first client was Stevie Wonder, who recorded part of his classic album Songs In The Key Of Life there. Other well-known albums to be recorded or partially recorded at the studio include Bruce Springsteen's Born In The USA, the Rolling Stones' Emotional Rescue and Paul Simon's Graceland. Michael Jackson, Billy Joel, Jay-Z and Beyonce are also among artists who have used the Hit Factory in the past, as well as 50 Cent who survived an attempt on his life as he left the premises in 2000. The studio made history in 1994 when it won a record 41 Grammy nominations for songs recorded, mastered or mixed there, including the soundtrack to the Whitney Houston film The Bodyguard.
The reggae industry is to refuse to release or stage concerts featuring homophobic songs under a global deal struck with gay rights groups. A damaging campaign against stars such as Beenie Man and Sizzla has been waged over lyrics that allegedly call for gay people to be killed or assaulted. The campaign, which led to gigs being scrapped and a UK police investigation, will now be dropped under the truce. Brett Lock of gay group OutRage! said they were "wiping the slate clean". The protests had been led by the Stop Murder Music coalition, an umbrella group including OutRage!, the Black Gay Men's Advisory Group and Jamaican movement J-Flag. That coalition has reached a verbal agreement with major dancehall reggae record labels and concert promoters covering eight of the scene's biggest stars. But the artists themselves were not involved in the negotiations and have not directly signed up. Instead, the record companies have pledged not to release or re-release any offensive songs - many of which date back a number of years. And it is believed promoters will make stars agree not to perform such tunes on stage. "The reggae industry will work with the artists while still maintaining their freedom of speech and artistic freedom," according to media and PR strategist Glen Yearwood, who is representing the reggae industry. The industry would halt any attempt by an artist to perform or release a song inciting violence against any group or gender, he said. "We'll advise them this is not
A much-loved guitar belonging to Jimi Hendrix has been sold for £100,000 at an auction in London. The 1965 Fender Stratocaster was one of a number of guitars included in the sale dedicated to the rock legend. The vast archive of instruments, signed records and posters were collected by a dedicated fan who had become friendly with the star. The auction was billed as the biggest collection of Hendrix memorabilia to go under the hammer. The majority of the items were collected by fan Bob Terry who began collecting at the age of 17. He later sold it on to another collector. Hendrix, widely considered one of the best guitarists of his era, died of a drug overdose in 1970 at the age of 27. The 1965 Fender Stratocaster was used by the musician on tour and in his studio. A poem written by Hendrix two weeks after his infamous appearance at the Monterey Festival where he set light to his guitar went for £10,000. The Jimi Hendrix Experience's first single Hey Joe, signed by all the band, was sold for £2,000. The sale, hosted by auctioneers Cooper Owen, was held at the Hard Rock Cafe in London.
Ticket sales at the US box office are predicted to break records this year, with figures expected to reach $9.4 billion, beating 2002's all-time high. Overall figures could be dampened by the lack of a Christmas hit like last year's Oscar-winning Lord of the Rings. Traditionally, ticket sales during the festive season account for 20% of the annual total. Although admissions have actually fallen this year, the predicted high is down to increasing ticket prices. According to Exhibitor Relations President Paul Dergarabedian, the average cost of a cinema ticket could be as high as $6.25 in 2004, compared to $5.80 in 2002. This year some of the biggest hits such as The Passion of the Christ and Fahrenheit 9/11 came from outside the major studios which are usually responsible for the key blockbusters. "Many of the films that did well (with audiences) are not necessarily the films that made a lot of money," said Mr Dergarabedian. He added that surprise hits had come from some of the more art-house offerings such as Napoleon Dynamite and critical hit Sideways. Sony Pictures, responsible for hits like Spiderman 2 and The Grudge, are expected to top domestic market share for the second time in three years, with $1 billion-plus in sales for the third consecutive year. Sony Pictures Entertainment vice chairman. Jeff Blake said: "We had a really diverse slate this year, and... certainly we pulled off one of the surprises with Grudge." Horror movie The Grudge cost Sony $10 million to make
Ronnie Corbett has joined fellow comedy stars Victoria Wood and David Jason in attacking the declining standards of British television programmes. Speaking to the Radio Times, the Two Ronnies star said there is too much bad language and reality TV. "You get fed up watching shows with not much care and love," he complained. Corbett, soon to reunite with Ronnie Barker for a new Two Ronnies series, also criticised quiz shows like the BBC's They Think It's All Over. "It's just laughing at each other and thinking, 'Aren't we clever?'" said the 74-year-old comedian. Corbett is the latest comedy star to bemoan the "dumbing down" of modern TV programmes. In an interview published in the Radio Times in January, Victoria Wood slated comedian Sacha Baron Cohen for his character Ali G's "horrible" brand of "victim" humour. "With so many good writers and good performers, it's a shame people can't just write a script and have other people learn it," she said. And last week Only Fools and Horses star David Jason criticised British TV for being "too safe and too cheap". "We've got to be careful not to dumb down for the audience," he said. "They shouldn't be sitting at home on the sofa vegetating." Corbett said he and Barker were always mindful of their family audience while making The Two Ronnies. "Our material was good-natured," he said. "We knew what would upset the average man in the street. "There's a lot of swearing on TV today. They even have
The Manic Street Preachers are to take over the helm of BBC digital radio station 6 Music for a week in December. The Welsh band, whose hits include Design For Life and If You Tolerate This, have already chosen which records to play between 6 and 12 December. Their albums of the day include Who's Next by The Who and U2's Joshua Tree. The group will also perform their own live session. They follow in the footsteps of Radiohead, who took over the station for a week last year. Bass player Nicky Wire will join Phil Jupitus on his morning show on Monday 6 December, while vocalist and guitarist James Dean Bradfield will appear on Andrew Collins' afternoon show on Thursday 9. The group have also chosen documentaries to air, such as The Leonard Cohen Story and Guitar Greats - Jimmy Page. The live concert session tracks they have picked include The Specials' Rat Race recorded at Hammersmith Odeon in London and Public Enemy's Fight The Power and Rebel Without A Pause. The band will also answer questions e-mailed in by 6 Music listeners.
The original stars of Swedish pop quartet Abba have reunited for the home premiere of hit musical Mamma Mia! which is based on the band's songs. It is the first time in almost 20 years that the four, Bjorn Ulvaeus, Benny Andersson, Agnetha Faltskog and Anni-Frid Lyngstad, have met publicly. Faltskog has been a virtual recluse since the band split up in 1982. The musical, which has become a global phenomenon, will be performed in Swedish for the first time. Fans camped outside Stockholm's Cirkus theatre in the snow for a glimpse of the stars. The premiere marks Abba's first public reunion since the legendary band's acrimonious break-up in the early 1980s. It was thought that Faltskog would appear in London for the musical's fifth anniversary celebrations in April 2004 but she stayed away due to her fear of flying. Original Abba member Bjorn Ulvaeus set about translating the musical into the band's mother tongue for the celebrated homecoming, alongside Swedish artist Niklas Stromstedt. Almost all of Abba's original songs, which have sold more than 350 million records worldwide, were written and recorded in English. The musical, set on a small Greek island, tells of the story of a young woman and her fiercely independent single mother. The show will include such classics as Super Trouper, SOS and Dancing Queen. There are currently 14 productions being staged worldwide, including New York and London, with road shows in Toronto, South Korea and Madrid. More than 20 million people around the world
Tickets for Scotland's biggest music festival have sold out in record time, five months before the event is held. The 12th annual T in the Park festival, which takes place at Balado near Kinross in July, sold out just four days after the line-up was announced. Green Day, the Foo Fighters and Keane are among the acts that had already been lined up to appear at the event. However, the organisers have revealed Scots favourites Travis as well as soulman James Brown will also appear. Last year tickets sold out 10 weeks before the festival but organisers confirmed that all 130,000 for the two-day event had been sold. Geoff Ellis, CEO of festival organisers Big Day Out Ltd, said this year's event promises to be the best yet. "After last year's sell-out, we did think this year's event would sell slightly earlier, however this is way beyond our expectations," Mr Ellis said. "We are extremely proud that fans are so excited about T in the Park that they have made absolutely sure that their place at Balado is booked for 2005, and we will deliver one of the greatest events yet for them in July." More than 120 acts will play on eight stages over the weekend of 9 and 10 July. Brit Award winners Keane and The Streets are among the main attractions, while The Killers and dance act The Prodigy are also on the bill. Both Green Day and The Foo Fighters last played at the festival in
Irish rock band U2 are to play live at the Grammy Awards presentation in the US next month, organisers have said. Other acts to play include soul singer Alicia Keys, country singer Tim McGraw and punk band Green Day at the event on 13 February in Los Angeles. U2 are nominated twice for their recent single Vertigo, including a nomination for best rock song. This year the Grammys have been dominated by rap star Kanye West, who is in contention for 10 awards. US comedian Ellen Degeneres and singer Christine Milian will present awards at the event. Last week Grammy producers announced the show will be hosted by rap star and Chicago actress Queen Latifah. It will be held at the Staples Center. U2 had number one success in the album charts on both sides of the Atlantic in November when their latest studio album, How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb, topped the US and UK charts. The band, who are also dominated for best international album at this year's Brit Awards, are to undertake a major world tour this year, their first for four years.
Actress Patsy Rowlands, known to millions for her roles in the Carry On films, has died at the age of 71. Rowlands starred in nine of the popular Carry On films, alongside fellow regulars Sid James, Kenneth Williams and Barbara Windsor. She also carved out a successful television career, appearing for many years in ITV's well-loved comedy Bless This House. Rowlands died in Hove on Saturday morning, her agent said. Born in January 1934, Rowlands won a scholarship to the Guildhall School of Speech and Drama scholarship when she was just 15. After spending several years at the Players Theatre in London, she made her film debut in 1963 in Tom Jones, directed by Tony Richardson. She made her first Carry On film in 1969 where she appeared in Carry On Again Doctor. Rowlands played the hard-done-by wife or the put-upon employee as a regular Carry On star. She also appeared in Carry On at your Convenience, Carry On Matron and Carry On Loving, as well as others. In recent years she appeared in BBC mini-series The Cazalets and played Mrs Potts in the London stage version of Beauty and the Beast. Agent Simon Beresford said: "She was just an absolutely favourite client She never complained about anything, particularly when she was ill, she was an old trouper. "She was of the old school - she had skills from musical theatre and high drama, that is why she worked with the great and the good of directors. "She didn't mind
Rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight has been arrested for violating his parole after he was allegedly found with marijuana. He was arrested in Barstow, California, on Saturday following an alleged traffic offence. He is expected to be transferred to a state prison while a decision is made on whether he should be released. Mr Knight, founder of Death Row Records, served a 10-month jail term in 2004 for punching a man while on parole for an assault conviction. Police said Mr Knight was stopped on Saturday after performing an illegal U-turn and a search of his car allegedly found marijuana. He is also accused of not having insurance. A 18-year-old woman in the car was arrested for providing false information and having a fake ID card. She was later released. It was his second alleged violation, having previously served half of a nine-year sentence for breaking the terms of his parole. Mr Knight, 39, was jailed in October 1996 following his involvement in a fight with a rival gang just hours before rapper Tupac Shakur was killed in a Las Vegas drive-by shooting. He was driving Shakur's car at the time and was shot in the head. At the time he was on probation for assaulting two musicians. Mr Knight, a former bodyguard, set up Death Row records in the early 1990s with Shakur and Dr Dre among his protegees. But the label has always been dogged by allegations it supports gang culture and fuels the east and west coast
Organisers say this year's Berlin Film Festival, which opens on Thursday with period epic Man to Man, will celebrate a revitalised European cinema. Of the 21 films in competition for the Golden and Silver Bear awards, more than half are from Europe with France particularly well represented. Festival director Dieter Kosslick says this strong showing signals "a new consciousness for European films". "They're on an incredible winning streak," he told the Reuters agency. "This isn't to say there aren't any good American films," he continued. "It's just that there are more good European films." However, Mr Kosslick refused to accept that widespread opposition to the Iraq war had turned audiences against Hollywood imports. "There is no anti-American mood," he said. Some 350 films will be screened at this year's festival, with a further 300 shown at the European Film Market that runs alongside it. More than a dozen celebrities are scheduled to attend, among them Will Smith, Kevin Spacey and Keanu Reeves. But Mr Kosslick says more would be coming had the Academy Awards not been brought forward to 27 February. "I'm not worried that we won't be able to fill the red carpet with stars," he said, though he admitted the festival may be moved to January next year to avoid a similar clash. The 10-day Berlinale runs until 20 February.
Top TV cult hit Little Britain has triumphed over The Office at the 15th annual British Comedy Awards. The BBC show beat The Office Christmas Special in the best TV comedy category and took the people's choice award. Matt Lucas and David Walliams also jointly won best TV comedy actor over The Office creator Ricky Gervais, who won a special award for writing. It was also a good night for Ant and Dec who clinched two awards, including best comedy entertainment personality. The Geordie duo also secured best comedy entertainment programme for Saturday Night Takeaway, beating I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!, which they also host, and the BBC's Have I Got News For You. The ceremony was presented by Jonathan Ross from ITV's London Studios headquarters on the capital's South Bank. Little Britain began life as a radio series on Radio 4, with Walliams and Lucas playing a range of misfit characters from an alternative Britain. It was later commissioned for BBC Three, where it proved a huge success, with the second series also shown on BBC One. After receiving his award for best TV comedy actor with Walliams, Lucas said: "It's a great honour to be nominated alongside Ricky Gervais and Martin Clunes." The show also won the people's choice award, which is the only gong on the night voted for by viewers. Speaking after receiving the award for best comedy, Walliams said: "It was a real shock but I don't think we deserved to beat
Dame Muriel Spark is among three British authors who have made the shortlist for the inaugural international Booker Prize. Doris Lessing and Ian McEwan have also been nominated. McEwan and Margaret Atwood are the only nominees to have previously won the main Booker Prize. The new £60,000 award is open to writers of all nationalities who write in English or are widely translated. The prize commends an author for their body of work instead of one book. Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Saul Bellow, Milan Kundera and John Updike also feature on the 18-strong list of world literary figures. But other past winners of the regular Booker Prize, such as Salman Rushdie, JM Coetzee and Kazuo Ishiguro have failed to make the shortlist. The prize, which will be awarded in London in June, will be given once every two years. It will reward an author - who must be living - for "continued creativity, development and overall contribution to fiction on the world stage". An author can only win once. The international award was started in response to criticisms that the Booker Prize is only open to British and Commonwealth authors. Margaret Atwood (Canada) Saul Bellow (Canada) Gabriel Garcia Marquez (Colombia) Gunter Grass (Germany) Ismail Kadare (Albania) Milan Kundera (Czech Republic) Stanislaw Lem (Poland) Doris Lessing (UK) Ian McEwan (UK) Naguib Mahfouz (Egypt) Tomas Eloy Martinez (Argentina) Kenzaburo Oe (Japan) Cynthia Ozick (US) Philip Roth (US) Muriel Spark (UK) Antonio Tabucchi (Italy) John Updike (US) Abraham B Yehoshua (Israel)
Super Size Me director Morgan Spurlock has won the Writers Guild of America's award for documentary feature writing. The Oscar-nominated film followed Spurlock as he ate only McDonald's fast food for an entire month. Spurlock was given the award at a special ceremony at the Roosevelt Hotel in Hollywood on Tuesday. Organisers said the rising popularity of documentary films led them to honour a writer for a documentary screenplay for the first time. Producer Brian Grazer presented the award to Spurlock and the film's backers, Roadside Attractions, Samuel Goldwyn Films and Showtime Independent Films. Spurlock set out to discover the effect of living on nothing but McDonald's for a month, upgrading to supersize portions when offered. The film followed his 25lb weight gain and the health effects on his body, including his liver and cholesterol levels. McDonald's announced it was to scrap its "supersized" meals last year, but denied the move was as a result of the negative publicity created by Spurlock's film. Spurlock was given his award on the same day the European Court of Human Rights ruled that two UK activists should have been given legal aid in their long fight against a McDonald's libel action. Helen Steel and David Morris, from north London, dubbed the "McLibel Two", were found guilty in a 1990s trial of libelling the company in a leaflet they had been handing out At the end of the case the High Court in London ruled McDonald's had been libelled and awarded the company £60,000
Comic book veteran Stan Lee is to team up with producer Robert Evans to create a movie featuring a new superhero. Foreverman will focus on a character who has to face problems in everyday life as well as using his special powers to save the world. Paramount Pictures, the studio behind the film, have revealed few details about the project but say it has the potential to spawn a series of films. Lee is best known for his work on Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk. He is collaborating on the script with screenwriter Peter Briggs, who penned the recent comic book adaptation Hellboy. "We believe it to be truly a whole new franchise," said Gill Champion, president and chief executive of Lee's POW! Entertainment. "In this world where people are looking for something different, Stan's idea was to create a concept not seen before to become an evergreen franchise for Paramount." Many of Lee's other creations, including X-Men and Daredevil, have been turned into films in the past five years. However, the Spider-Man series has been the biggest box office hit, with the 2002 original and its 2004 sequel taking almost $1.6bn (£857m) worldwide. A third Spider-Man film is scheduled for release in 2007. Another Marvel Comics adaptation, The Fantastic Four, will be released in cinemas this summer.
Novelist Arthur Hailey, who has died at the age of 84, was known for his bestselling page-turners exploring the inner workings of various industries, from the hotels to high finance. Born in Luton, Bedfordshire, on 5 April 1920, Hailey was the only child of working class parents, They could not afford to keep him in school beyond the age of 14. He served as a pilot with the Royal Air Force during World War II, flying fighter planes to the Middle East. It was an occupation that was later to feature in his authorial debut, the television screenplay Flight into Danger. Hailey emigrated to Canada in 1947, where he eventually became a citizen. He wanted to be a writer from an early age, but did not take it up professionally until his mid-thirties, when he was inspired to write his first screenplay while on a return flight to Toronto. "I fell to daydreaming. I visualised the pilots at the controls and wondered what would happen if they both got sick. Could I fly the airplane? I was a rusty wartime pilot who hadn't flown for nine years... " Hailey later recalled. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation bought Flight into Danger for $600 (£318) and it was shown on TV in April 1956. It was later memorably spoofed in the 1980 comedy Airplane!, starring Leslie Nielsen. Hailey worked as a screenwriter for a couple of years, before turning to novels. He went on to produce 11 best-selling books, which were published into
All four contestants still remain in I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here as no evictions were made on the television show on Saturday. Contestants Paul Burrell, Joe Pasquale, Janet Street-Porter and Fran Cosgrave were told by hosts Ant and Dec. Natalie Appleton's decision to quit the show last Monday had given them all a stay of execution, the group were told. Model Sophie Anderton was the last person to be voted off the ITV1 show, set in the Australian jungle. The four remaining stars will do a joint Bushtucker Trial on Sunday. Former All Saints singer Natalie Appleton,31, walked out of the show after learning she would face a fifth so-called Bushtucker Trial. The celebrities are chosen by the viewers to pass trials in order to win food for the rest of the camp. Appleton had endured a torrid time during the programme, including a well-publicised row with Sophie Anderton. And on 26 November singer Brian Harvey quit as a contestant after he had a blazing row with Janet Street-Porter.
Harry Potter director Alfonso Cuaron has signed a three-year deal with Hollywood studio Warner Brothers, according to Variety trade magazine. The Mexican film-maker, who directed Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, will produce mainstream movies and smaller Spanish-language films. "We had a wonderful experience with Alfonso on Harry Potter," Warner producer Jeff Robinov told Variety. Cuaron's other films include Mexican movie Y Tu Mama Tambien. The 2001 rites-of-passage drama about two teenage boys who embark on a relationship with an older woman, brought Cuaron international attention - and box office glory. It also won him and his brother Carlos, with whom he co-wrote the screenplay, an Oscar nomination for best original screenplay. Warner will distribute Cuaron's films in several languages outside the US. "This deal will give us the opportunity to collaborate with Alfonso on movies that make the most of his artistry and vision, and continue to offer him the mainstream worldwide audiences that our studio provides so successfully," said Mr Robinov. His first film for Warner Brothers was 1995's family fantasy movie A Little Princess. Based on the novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett, A Little Princess tells the story of a young girl who is sent to live in a New York boarding school when her widowed father enlists for war. After the erotic nature of Y Tu Mama Tambien, Cuaron was a surprise choice to direct the third Harry Potter film but his dark interpretation was received well by the public and critics alike.
The original version of horror prequel Exorcist: The Beginning, dropped by producers over claims it was not scary enough, is to have its world premiere. The film, directed by Paul Schrader, will be screened on 18 March at the International Festival of Fantastic Film in Brussels. The psychological drama stars Stellan Skarsgard and foreruns the 1973 film. Schrader was replaced by director Renny Harlin who made a new version of the film which debuted in 2004. The prequel project was originally announced in 2001, with actor Liam Neeson in the lead role and John Frankenheimer as director. However Frankenheimer pulled out in 2002, a month before he died. Skarsgard then replaced Neeson in the role of Father Merrin, made famous by Max Von Sydow in the 1973 film. Principal footage was shot in Morocco and Rome at a reported cost of $32m. However, in August 2003 it emerged that producers Morgan Creek were shelving Schrader's version of the film, having complained it was not scary enough. As well as replacing Schrader with Harlin - the director behind Die Hard 2 and Cliffhanger - the producers also changed most of the cast, but Swedish star Skarsgard stayed in the Merrin role. Harlin's film, released in the UK in October 2004, received lukewarm reviews but went on to make over $76m (£40.7m) worldwide. The festival screening will be the first time that Schrader's film has been seen in public. Reports that it will be released either in cinemas or on DVD have
Music producer Phil Spector is facing legal action from the mother of the actress he has been accused of killing. Donna Clarkson, whose daughter Lana was found dead in Mr Spector's home in February 2003, is seeking unspecified damages in a civil action. The legal action accuses Mr Spector of murdering the actress at his LA home. Mr Spector is currently free on $1m (£535,000) bail and is awaiting trial. The 64-year-old has denied the killing, saying her death was accidental. Ms Clarkson's legal action, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, also accuses Mr Spector of negligence and battery, alleging he "grabbed, hit, fought with and restrained" Lana Clarkson before shooting her to death. Her lawyers said in a statement: "The Clarkson family had hoped that there would be some resolution with regard to the criminal proceedings before moving forward with the civil action. "However, Ms Clarkson and her family understand that the fair administration of justice takes time and in light of the numerous changes Mr Spector has made in his legal defence team over the last two years, Ms Clarkson was forced to file the action before (the statute of limitations expired) on 3 February 2005." Mr Spector, known for his work with the Beatles, has claimed that Lana Clarkson committed suicide. His lawyers, led by Bruce Cutler, have vowed to prove him innocent at trial. Mr Cutler said: "Phil did not cause the death of this woman, he's not criminally responsible and he's not civilly responsible either.
A Christmas tree that can receive text messages has been unveiled at London's Tate Britain art gallery. The spruce has an antenna which can receive Bluetooth texts sent by visitors to the Tate. The messages will be "unwrapped" by sculptor Richard Wentworth, who is responsible for decorating the tree with broken plates and light bulbs. It is the 17th year that the gallery has invited an artist to dress their Christmas tree. Artists who have decorated the Tate tree in previous years include Tracey Emin in 2002. The plain green Norway spruce is displayed in the gallery's foyer. Its light bulb adornments are dimmed, ordinary domestic ones joined together with string. The plates decorating the branches will be auctioned off for the children's charity ArtWorks. Wentworth worked as an assistant to sculptor Henry Moore in the late 1960s. His reputation as a sculptor grew in the 1980s, while he has been one of the most influential teachers during the last two decades. Wentworth is also known for his photography of mundane, everyday subjects such as a cigarette packet jammed under the wonky leg of a table.
Angolan families who are attempting to track each other down, after being separated by nearly 30 years of war, are succeeding thanks to a hugely popular TV show. Meeting Point has become one of TV Angola's most watched programmes, and has reunited hundreds of families. It runs daily, not only on the television but also on the radio. Every Friday, hundreds of people gather in Luanda's Independence Square to record a message in front of the TV cameras, in the hope that a lost relative will see it. Many relatives have been reunited on air. "At the beginning there was an absolute explosion - huge, huge crowds," Sergio Gera, the programme's chief co-ordinator, told BBC World Service's Assignment programme. "Now things are a little calmer, there are slightly less people - but, after two and a half years of broadcasting, there are still a lot of people going." The media in the southern African country, twice the size of France, has been gripped by the quest of so many people to find their relatives. Hundreds of thousands of people died in Angola's 30-year civil war, which finally ended in 2002, and tens of thousands of people are still missing. Many have not heard anything for 10 or more years - in all, 90% of Angolan families have lost someone. The idea of recording in Independence Square was modelled on a square in the Argentine capital Buenos Aries, where mothers go to talk about the dead and the missing, and to
The stage adaptation of children's film Mary Poppins has had its opening night in London's West End. Sir Cameron Mackintosh's lavish production, which has cost £9m to bring to the stage, was given a 10-minute standing ovation. Lead actress Laura Michelle Kelly soared over the heads of the audience holding the nanny's trademark umbrella. Technical hitches had prevented Mary Poppins' flight into the auditorium during preview performances. A number of celebrities turned out for the musical's premiere, including actress Barbara Windsor, comic Graham Norton and Sir Richard Attenborough. The show's director Richard Eyre issued a warning earlier in the week that the show was unsuitable for children under seven, while under-threes are barred. Mary Poppins was originally created by author Pamela Travers, who is said to have cried when she saw Disney's 1964 film starring Julie Andrews. Travers had intended the story to be a lot darker than the perennial family favourite. Theatre impresario Sir Cameron Mackintosh has said he hopes the musical is a blend of the sweet-natured film and the original book.
The film world and media may be wild about the Oscars but cinema-goers and the TV-viewing public are sick of watching award ceremonies, according to some LA film critics. Bob Strauss, from the LA Daily News, thinks there are just too many televised gatherings of stars showering praise on each other. He came up with a colourful but unprintable description for these glitzy events, which roughly translates a "celebrity love-in". This echoed the views of Oscars host and comedian Chris Rock, who whipped up a media storm for saying he rarely watched them, calling award shows "idiotic". "As Chris Rock accurately said, they're about celebrity and fashion," Mr Strauss said. The recent Grammy music awards proved to be a ratings loser, and it seems Oscars organisers are determined not to go the same way. Recently announced changes to the ceremony include lining up all five nominees on stage before announcing the winner. Unsurprisingly, this prompted press speculation that the changes were aimed at boosting flagging advertising revenue. But Entertainment Weekly's Dave Karger maintained the Oscars only generated excitement outside the industry when a blockbuster, such as Titanic or Lord of the Rings, was nominated. The near constant flow of US film awards, representing directors, actors and producers' guilds, also means "few surprises" are left by the time the Oscar ceremony is upon us, he said. A quick scan of the Los Angeles Times and Los Angeles Daily News bears this out - speculation about who will win seems to have
Plans to create a US soap based on the BBC's EastEnders have reportedly been drawn up by the Fox TV network. EastEnders' head writer Tony Jordan and music mogul Simon Fuller are involved in the project, according to reports in the Hollywood Reporter trade newspaper. It said scripts have been commissioned for a series about a community of working class people in of Chicago. The original EastEnders was pulled from BBC America last year after it proved a failure in the ratings. US versions of other British hits have proved less successful across the Atlantic. BBC comedy Coupling was remade with a US cast, but lost its primetime slot on the NBC network due to disappointing ratings. At home, EastEnders has been facing its own ratings battle, recently losing out to rival ITV soap Emmer dale. Primetime soaps on US television have made a recent comeback, following the success of ABC serial Desperate Housewives. The series takes a "darkly comedic" look at the goings-on of a group of characters living in the suburbs.
Uganda's authorities have banned the play The Vagina Monologues, due to open in the capital, Kampala this weekend. The Ugandan Media Council said the performance would not be put on as it promoted and glorified acts such as lesbianism and homosexuality. It said the production could go ahead if the organisers "expunge all the offending parts". But the organisers of the play say it raises awareness of sexual abuse against women. "The play promotes illegal, unnatural sexual acts, homosexuality and prostitution, it should be and is hereby banned," the council's ruling said. The show, which has been a controversial sell-out around the world, explores female sexuality and strength through individual women telling their stories through monologues. Some parliamentarians and church leaders are also siding with the Media Council, Uganda's New Vision newspaper reports. "The play is obscene and pornographic although it was under the guise of women's liberation," MP Kefa Ssempgani told parliament. But the work's author, US playwright Eve Ensler, says it is all about women's empowerment. "There is obviously some fear of the vagina and saying the word vagina," Ms Ensler told the BBC. "It's not a slang word or dirty word it's a biological, anatomical word." She said the play is being produced and performed by Ugandan women and it is not being forced on them. The four Ugandan NGOs organising the play intended to raise money to campaign to stop violence against women and to raise funds for the war-torn north of the country. "I'm extremely
Cult British group Portishead have revealed they are writing their third album, their first in eight years. Founding member Geoff Barrow told BBC 6 Music the record was well on the way to being completed. "We're actually into it as we speak. We took some time off for Christmas, but generally we're doing another record," Barrow told the digital radio station. News of their album plans comes after confirmation the Bristol band will play a tsunami charity show next month. Portishead will play alongside fellow Bristol band Massive Attack at Oxfam's Tsumani appeal, held at the Bristol Academy on 19 February. Barrow said he was surprised people thought the band, who won a Mercury Music Prize in 1995 for their debut album Dummy, had split up. "We've just had our heads down really, we've never actually broken up, or parted, or whatever. "So for us it just seems, even though we haven't played for years, we still see each other and write - we just haven't released a record for a long time." Portishead will not play any new material at next month's concert, which will feature singer Beth Gibbons playing with an acoustic backing. Other acts appearing include Liverpool band The Coral and former Led Zeppelin singer Robert Plant. Portishead became an international success and a deeply influential band despite their scant recorded output. Dummy was a critics' favourite in 1994, hailed for its blend of menacing sounds and hip-hop beats married to old soul samples. The follow up,
Hollywood film star Liam Neeson has held a dinner party in New York to promote Belfast's Lyric Theatre. The Ballymena-born actor said that the theatre on Ridgeway Street was in a "very dilapidated condition". Lyric chairman David Johnston has said that rebuilding the theatre, at a cost of £8m is the only answer. Mr Neeson said that the idea was to get a bunch of "healthy, wealthy Irish Americans" in one room and ask them to help with fundraising. The Oscar-nominated actor, whose films include Schindler's List, Michael Collins and Star Wars: The Phantom Menace, said: "The Lyric is too important to the cultural and social life of Northern Ireland for this building to crumble and fall apart. "It gave me a start professionally. Mary O'Malley, the founder of the theatre, gave me my future. "In those days, in the mid-70s, when I was there, we were doing a play every four weeks. "Belfast was not a pretty town to be living in. "There was serious trouble, as you know, but this theatre was like a Belisha beacon of light and hope six nights a week, doing everything from Shakespeare to Yeats to O'Casey with a group of actors and actresses that affected me very deeply and still do." The Lyric began 50 years ago but the doors opened at its present site on the Stranmillis embankment overlooking the River Lagan in 1968. As well as Liam Neeson, it also launched the careers of Adrian Dunbar and Stephen Rea and
Leading actor Edward Fox is one of the men behind plans to reopen a Swansea theatre thought to be Wales' oldest. The star of film and TV hits Day of the Jackal and Edward and Mrs Simpson has joined forces with Swansea-born actor-director Terry Palmer. They will set up a charity to raise money to buy the Palace Theatre, and hope to reopen it to audiences in summer 2006. It is estimated that £500,000 is needed to buy the Grade II listed building. The Palace Theatre, which will be known as The Pavilion Repertory Theatre, was sold to an undisclosed bidder at auction 13 months ago for £340,000. Before that it had been used as a nightclub for 10 years. Oscar-winner Sir Anthony Hopkins, who was born in nearby Port Talbot, made his professional debut there, and Charlie Chaplin and Lily Langtry have also trodden its boards. Fox told the South Wales Evening Post that after visiting the theatre he was surprised by its beauty. "A lot of money needs to be spent on it, but all the bones are there - it just needs a beautiful skin," he said. "To call it a jewel is not an over-estimation. There are not many theatres left like this. "The hope for the immediate future is that we can attract enough people to come forward to allow it to prosper," he told the newspaper. Fox first found fame in the 1960s. One of his most memorable roles was as an assassin in
Oscar-winner Andrea Arnold has been congratulated by the UK Film Council, the organisation which partly funded her project. Arnold's film Wasp won the best live action short film award on Sunday. "The UK Film Council spends millions of pounds of lottery investment on short filmmaking in Britain every year," said chief executive officer John Woodward. "It certainly pays off when you see new film-makers winning such prestigious awards," he added. Wasp, which was commissioned by the Film Council and Channel 4, beat films by fellow UK nominees Gary McKendry and Ashvin Kumar to the prize. It stars actress Nathalie Press, who appeared in the Bafta-winning drama My Summer Of Love, as a single mother who is forced to take drastic action when she is invited on a date and is unable to find a babysitter to look after her four daughters. The film has already won over 30 other international awards including the Sundance Short Film Prize. Arnold, from Dartford in Kent, described her victory as "truly overwhelming. I'm really not used to this kind of thing," she said, after receiving her Oscar from actor Jeremy Irons. "Thanks to everyone who worked on this - the beers are on me when we get home." The director was one of only two British winners on the night, the other being Sandy Powell, who won the costume design Oscar for her work on The Aviator.
Actress Anna Keaveney, who appeared in Brookside, My Family and A Touch of Frost, has died of lung cancer aged 55. Keaveney, who played Brookside's Marie Jackson when the Channel 4 soap began in 1982, died on Saturday. Born in Runcorn, Cheshire, she also starred in numerous films including 1989's Shirley Valentine. She played Nellie in Mike Leigh's latest film Vera Drake, which won the Golden Lion prize for best film at this year's Venice Film Festival. And most recently she appeared alongside Richard Wilson in ITV's King of Fridges and with Martin Clunes in Doc Martin. Other TV appearances included the part of Matron in ITV drama Footballers' Wives and a cameo role as Tom Farrell's mother Sheila in BBC comedy Gimme Gimme Gimme. Keaveney's career also included stage performances in Neaptide for the National Theatre, Private Lives and The Rise and Fall of Little Voice. The actress died in hospital. Her agent Barry Brown said: "Anna was due to have had another operation on Friday but unfortunately she was too weak."
Charlie Simpson took his new band Fightstar to the stage on Friday night, just hours after officially announcing his departure from pop band Busted. He was greeted by a sell-out crowd at the University of Warwick. Confirmation of Busted's long-rumoured split had come earlier in the day, when Simpson held a press conference in London with bandmates Matt Willis and James Bourne. All three band members stressed that the break up was amicable, although Bourne admitted he was "devastated" to hear of Simpson's departure. "This has been a really difficult decision," 19-year-old Simpson revealed, "I hope the fans will understand." While Simpson declared he would look back with pride on Busted's enormous success, his focus turned immediately to Fightstar, with Friday's press conference coinciding with the start of the band's 13-date tour of the UK. Fuelled by this news, all 1,400 tickets to see Charlie's first post-Busted live appearance - at the University of Warwick's Student Union - sold out rapidly. Mike Eccleshall, the venue's Promotions Coordinator, said: "Tickets had been selling strongly over the past few days, but sales went mad after the news broke. We had completely sold out by 4pm." With queues outside the venue long and expectations high, the pressure was on Fightstar to impress. Although many dedicated fans travelled to the gig from around the country, they faced a tough crowd made up chiefly of students, the average age of the audience far exceeding that of any Busted concert. Gone were the screaming girls to
Fewer children in the UK are following in the dainty footsteps of dancers like Darcey Bussell, and carving out potential careers as ballet dancers. New research from the Royal Academy of Dance (RAD) has found fewer children over the age of 10 are attending ballet classes and taking exams in the discipline. The organisation blames the growing popularity of computer games and other changes in lifestyle. And there are fears that if the trend is not reversed, there could be fewer British ballet stars in the future. The RAD found that the number of youngsters taking their ballet exams drops by almost 70% after the age of 10 or 11. Dance teacher Eve Trew, who has taught ballet for over 48 years, told BBC News she had seen a "vast" change over the years. She blamed modern lifestyles for the fall in ballet attendance. "I think the children of many years ago did not have as many hobbies," she said. "The trouble now is that they are wide open to computers, Gameboys and everything else children have got. "As a result, there is less time being spent on ballet lessons." Hazel Gilbert, 23, an information manager from Newcastle, gave up ballet at the age of 10 and is typical of the problem. "It's not a very cool thing to do when you go to 'big' school and I think you have to be very focused on ballet to want to carry on doing it," she said. "I used to love
Chart-topping R&B star Usher is leading the field at this year's Soul Train Awards, with five nominations. The singer, whose album Confessions has sold close to eight million copies in the US alone, is already in the running for eight Grammy Awards. Newcomer Ciara - who recently beat Elvis Presley to the UK number one spot - has four nominations, while Alicia Keys has three. The Soul Train Awards ceremony will take place in Hollywood on 28 February. Usher has already swept the board at the American Music Awards with four titles, including two best album awards. His Soul Train nominations include best male R&B-soul album and best male R&B-soul single for Confessions Part II. Usher's work with rappers Ludacris & Lil Jon won him nominations for best R&B-soul or rap music video and best R&B-soul or rap dance cut for the song Yeah!, while his duet with Keys, My Boo, earned the pair a nod for best R&B-soul single. Keys' album The Diary of Alicia Keys was also up for best R&B-soul album by a female. Her song If I Ain't Got You received a best single nomination in the female R&B-soul category. Newcomer Ciara's four nominations include best female R&B-soul album and best R&B-soul or rap by a new artist. Beyonce, Prince, Destiny's Child, Jill Scott and New Edition all received two nominations each. The Soul Train Music Awards, which started 18 years ago, celebrates artists in R&B, hip-hop, rap and gospel music.
Robert De Niro has completed a transatlantic box office double by topping the UK and US film charts with two different films at the same time. Comedy sequel Meet the Fockers, in which he stars with Ben Stiller, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand, shot to the top of the UK chart at the weekend. It took £7.2m in three days - eight times more than the number two, Closer. Assault on Precinct 13 was in third. At the same time, US audiences were won over by his new thriller Hide and Seek. In Meet the Fockers, he picks up the role of an uptight father and ex-CIA agent from 2000 hit comedy, Meet the Parents. It is a big leap to his role in Hide and Seek, a supernatural horror in which he plays a widower whose daughter's imaginary friend turns nasty. In the UK box office chart, Meet the Fockers pushed Closer off the top spot while police action movie Assault On Precinct 13, starring rapper Ja Rule, made £750,000 in its first weekend. London Underground thriller Creep was another new entry at six while quirky comedy Sideways, which got five Oscar nominations last week, entered in eighth place. The Oscar nominations do not seem to have had an impact on fans' choices at cinemas. Leading contenders The Aviator, Million Dollar Baby and Ray all suffered substantial drops in takings compared with the previous weekend.
Movie stars from across the globe are attending this year's Bafta film award ceremony. British stars Imelda Staunton and Clive Owen are hoping for awards at the Odeon in London's Leicester Square. Hollywood stars Leonardo diCaprio, Pierce Brosnan, Christian Slater and Richard Gere are also in the audience for the biggest night in UK film. Hollywood blockbuster The Aviator, starring DiCaprio, leads the field with 14 nominations, including best movie. It is up against Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Finding Neverland, The Motorcycle Diaries and British film Vera Drake, which has 11 nominations. Staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. She arrived at the ceremony wearing a green silk and chiffon low cut evening dress decorated with beads. "It's lovely to be here at home, to be on British soil. It's very nice indeed," she told reporters. Asked whether she was nervous about her best actress nomination she said: "It's out of my hands, there's nothing I can do. I'm here with a lot of mates and we're going to have a very nice evening." Other nominees in the best actress category include Charlize Theron for Monster, Ziyi Zhang for House of Flying Daggers and UK star Kate Winslet, who has two nods for her roles in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Finding Neverland. DiCaprio faces competition from Bernal, Jamie Foxx, Jim Carrey and Johnny Depp in the best actor
Minority ethnic led (Mel) production companies face barriers in succeeding in the film and television industries, research has suggested. The study, commissioned by Pact and the UK Film Council, included interviews with industry experts and individuals. They indicated that career progression and a lack of role models are among the main problems within such companies. The research indicated that about 10% of independent production companies in the UK are minority ethnic led. A minority ethnic led company is defined as one in which the majority of decision-making power rests with an individual or individuals from a minority ethnic group. The report also explored the problems faced by such companies when attempting to compete within the film and TV industries. It said they are often smaller than other companies and lack the resources, so are often squeezed out of the market by bigger firms. The research recommended that minority ethnic led companies could benefit from such positive actions as career training and business advice, plus improved communication within the film and TV sectors. "The UK has a rich and diverse culture and it is essential that it is reflected on film and television," said Arts minister Estelle Morris of the findings. "I welcome this report which I hope will lead to more doors being opened and all businesses in our film and television industries being given the same opportunities."
Chart-topping pop band Busted have confirmed that they plan to "take a break", following rumours that they were on the verge of splitting. A statement from the band's record company Universal said frontman Charlie Simpson planned to spend some time working with his other band, Fightstar. However they said that Busted would "reconvene in due course". The band have had eight top three hits, including four number ones, since they first hit the charts in 2002. Their singles include What I Go To School For, Year 3000, Crashed The Wedding, You Said No, and Who's David? The band, which also includes members Matt Jay and James Bourne, made the top ten with their self-titled debut album, as well as the follow-up, A Present For Everyone, in 2003. They won best pop act and best breakthrough act at the 2004 Brit Awards and were nominated for best British group. Most recently they topped the charts with the theme from the live-action film version of Thunderbirds, which was voted Record Of The Year on the ITV1 show. The band have capitalised on a craze for artists playing catchy pop music with rock overtones. The trio are seen as an alternative to more manufactured artists who are not considered credible musicians because they do not write their own songs or play their own instruments. However, recent rumours have suggested that Simpson has been wanting to quit the band to focus on Fightstar. He now plans to take Fightstar on tour.
A total of 267 films are eligible for the best film Oscar but only five will be chosen to go forward as nominees. The Academy of Motion Picture, Arts and Sciences has sent out the first ballot papers with the full list of films vying for recognition. Among those expected to receive nominations are The Aviator, Million Dollar Baby and Sideways. Academy members will now vote for their favourites before the final nominees are announced on 25 January. To be eligible for nomination a film must have been shown in a commercial theatre for seven consecutive days before the deadline of 31 December. Director Martin Scorsese's The Aviator, starring Leonardo DiCaprio went on general release on Christmas Day in the US, ensuring it just made the deadline. Studios have already begun lobbying voters, taking out full page adverts in trade publications such as Variety urging them to remember particular films when it comes to choosing what to back. Other movies tipped for possible success include Closer, starring Jude Law and Julia Roberts, Finding Neverland, with Johnny Depp as author JM Barry and Kinsey starring Liam Neeson as the famed sex scientist Alfred Kinsey. Meanwhile, design engineer Takuo Miyagishima will be awarded an Oscar at the Scientific and Technical Awards Dinner on 12 February 2005. Miyagishima is the 18th recipient of the Sawyer Award, which is "presented to an individual in the motion picture industry whose technological contributions have brought credit to the industry." The main Oscar ceremony will be held
The Office's Ricky Gervais is writing an episode of hit US cartoon The Simpsons, following an invitation from its creator Matt Groening. Gervais has already begun writing the script but is keeping its subject matter a closely guarded secret. He will also write a part for himself in the episode. "I've got the rough idea but this is the most intimidating project of my career. The Simpsons is the greatest TV show of all time," he said. Groening recently heaped praise on The Office, saying: "Everybody on The Simpsons is a fan of The Office - it's one of the best shows on TV in the last decade." Gervais has already said he would not guest star in the show as his Office character David, having left him behind for good in the Christmas specials. The Office became a surprise US success when it was screened on cable channel BBC America. The first series won two Golden Globes in 2004 for best comedy and best TV actor for Gervais. In winning it beat the likes of Sex and the City and Will and Grace. An American version was produced, but so far only a pilot has been broadcast - to much criticism that it failed to live up to the original. At the British Comedy Awards on Wednesday, Gervais was handed a special achievement award for writing. But The Office missed out in the best comedy show category to Little Britain. Matt Groening was also at the awards to collect
The low-budget horror film Boogeyman has knocked Robert de Niro thriller Hide and Seek from the top spot at the UK box office. The film, in which a young man is forced to revisit a traumatic childhood experience, took £788,439 in its first three days on release. Hide And Seek, which was knocked off the top of the US box office by Boogeyman last month, fell one place. Oscar nominee Hotel Rwanda was also a new entry in the chart, at number five. The film, which scored Oscar nominations for Don Cheadle and British actress Sophie Okonedo, made £507, 596 in its first week of nationwide release. Comedy sequel Meet The Fockers and Shall We Dance?, starring Jennifer Lopez and Richard Gere, completed the top five. Clint Eastwood's Million Dollar Baby re-entered the charts at number eight, following its recent success at the Oscars. The boxing drama, which won four awards including best film and best director, has made £4.4m to date. Two other new entries, a remake of the 1965 film Flight of the Phoenix, and the teen comedy Harold and Kumar Get The Munchies, debuted outside the top 10.
Companies are getting worse at keeping their wireless data networks secure. A survey of wi-fi networks in London, Frankfurt, New York and San Francisco by RSA Security found more than a third had basic security features turned off. By contrast last year's survey found that 15% of firms had failed to take basic steps to improve security. RSA warned that wi-fi's growing popularity made it much more likely that insecure networks would be found and exploited. Wireless or wi-fi networks have become hugely popular over the last few years in offices because they are easy to set up and make going online much more convenient. This popularity shows no sign of slowing reveals the annual RSA Security and NetSurity survey which found an annual 66% growth rate in the number of wireless nets being installed in London and Frankfurt. Although most firms do take steps to turn on the security functions built in to the wi-fi standard and protect themselves from attack, the survey found that a significant proportion were taking unnecessary risks. On average 33% of the wireless networks found by RSA and NetSurity researchers in London, Frankfurt, New York and San Francisco had not used basic security systems. Many firms were simply turning on their wireless net access points and use default settings that anyone familiar with wi-fi could easily find out. RSA said that 26% of wi-fi networks found London used default settings compared to 30% in Frankfurt, 31% in New York and 28% in San Francisco.
Toulouse's former Irish international Trevor Brennan could be one of Clive Woodward's many surprises when the 44-man Lions tour squad is announced. Brennan, who last played for Ireland against Samoa in 2001, is held in high esteem by the former England coach. "If you speak to the players there's a huge amount of respect for the guy," Woodward told the Sunday Independent. "Players tend to know better than most coaches. It's not just the Irish, but Welsh and English players as well." The 31-year-old former Dublin milkman moved from Leinster to Toulouse in 2003 and immediately picked up a Heineken Cup winner's medal in an all-French final against Perpignan at Lansdowne Road. Brennan is highly-rated at Stade Toulousain, where he is used anywhere in the back five. Woodward is ensuring his preparations for the trip to New Zealand in June are as thorough as possible. "I've spoken to quite a few players, and they probably don't know what they're actually saying when we're having these conversations," he told the newspaper. "But you talk about certain players and they'll say if they think they're up to scratch or that they don't want them in their team. "I haven't heard a bad word said against Trevor, which, considering he has a pretty tough guy reputation, is, to me, impressive."
Rapper 50 Cent has become the first solo artist to have three singles in the US top five in the same week. His track Candy Shop remained at the top of the charts, while Disco Inferno crept up from six to five. 50 Cent also appears on rap protege The Game's song How We do, number four in the US but now outside the UK top ten. The pair had a recent dispute which saw The Game thrown out of 50 Cent's rap collective G-Unit, accusing him of disloyalty in an ongoing feud. 50 Cent, who burst onto the music scene in 2003, has had less success in the UK charts, with three singles making the top ten. His debut album, Get Rich And Die Tryin', narrowly missed out on becoming a UK chart topper. But in the US, he headed the 2003 end of year charts for the album and R&B and hip hop artists. Newcomer The Game's debut reached the top of the charts five weeks ago, while 50 Cent's second collection The Masscre was released in the US at the end of last week. Last May, R&B star Usher scored a chart first, with three concurrent singles in the US Top 10, a feat which was previously matched only by The Bee Gees and The Beatles. The hit songs were taken from the 24-year-old's Confessions album, which topped the American chart for eight weeks.
India, which attends the G7 meeting of seven leading industrialised nations on Friday, is unlikely to be cowed by its newcomer status. In London on Thursday ahead of the meeting, India's finance minister, lashed out at the restrictive trade policies of the G7 nations. He objected to subsidies on agriculture that make it hard for developing nations like India to compete. He also called for reform of the United Nations, the World Bank and the IMF. Palaniappan Chidambaram, India's finance minister, argued that these organisations need to take into account the changing world order, given India and China's integration into the global economy. He said the issue is not globalisation but "the terms of engagement in globalisation." Mr Chidambaram is attending the G7 meeting as part of the G20 group of nations, which account for two thirds of the world's population. At a conference on developing enterprise hosted by UK finance minister Gordon Brown on Friday, he said that he was in favour of floating exchange rates because they help countries cope with economic shocks. "A flexible exchange rate is one more channel for absorbing both positive and negative shocks," he told the conference. India, along with China, Brazil, South Africa and Russia, has been invited to take part in the G7 meeting taking place in London on Friday and Saturday. China is expected to face renewed pressure to abandon its fixed exchange rate, which G7 nations, in particular the US, have blamed for a surge in cheap Chinese exports.
Shares in UK Coal have fallen after the mining group reported losses had deepened to £51.6m in 2004 from £1.2m. The UK's biggest coal producer blamed geological problems, industrial action and "operating flaws" at its deep mines for its worsening fortunes. The South Yorkshire company, led by new chief executive Gerry Spindler, said it hoped to return to profit in 2006. In early trade on Thursday, its shares were down 10% at 119 pence. UK Coal said it was making "significant progress" in shaking up the business. It had introduced new wage structures, a new daily maintenance regime for machinery at its mines and methods to continue mining in adverse conditions. The company said these actions should "significantly uplift earnings". It expected 2005 to be a "transitional year" and to return to profitability in 2006. The recent rise in coal prices has failed to benefit the company as most of its output had already been sold, it said. Total production costs were £1.30 per gigajoule, UK Coal said, but the average selling price was just £1.18 per gigajoule. "We have a long journey ahead to fix these issues. We continue to make progress and great strides have already been made," said Mr Spindler. UK Coal operates 15 deep and surface mines across Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Yorkshire, the West Midlands, Northumberland and Durham.
Holders Manchester United and Premiership leaders Chelsea both face difficult away ties against Premiership opposition in the FA Cup fifth round. United were drawn against Everton, while Chelsea face a trip to Newcastle. Brentford and Hartlepool - the only sides left from outside the top two divisions - will replay for the right to travel to Southampton. Burnley's reward for a place in the last 16 was a home tie against Lancashire rivals Blackburn. The tie between Manchester United and Everton could see the return of teenage striker Wayne Rooney to his former club for the first time since his acrimonious £27m move. Nottingham Forest boss Gary Megson could face a trip back to old club West Brom if they come through their fourth-round replay against Tottenham. Arsenal were handed a potential home tie against fellow Londoners West Ham, providing the Hammers come through their replay against Sheffield United. Charlton will play Leicester and Bolton await the winners of the Derby-Fulham replay. : Bolton v Derby or Fulham West Bromwich Albion or Tottenham v Nottingham Forest Everton v Manchester United Charlton Athletic v Leicester City Burnley v Blackburn Southampton v Brentford or Hartlepool Newcastle v Chelsea Arsenal v West Ham or Sheffield United Ties to be played on 19/20 February.
Euro MP Robert Kilroy-Silk has had a bucket of farm slurry thrown over him by a protester in Manchester. The UK Independence Party member was arriving for a BBC radio show when the attacker emerged from behind a bush. Fellow guest Ruth Kelly MP was also hit by the slurry. Mr Kilroy-Silk said the man, who later disappeared, claimed he was "doing it in the name of Islam". In January, Mr Kilroy-Silk quit his BBC One show for remarks he made about Arabs, who he called "suicide bombers". Mr Kilroy-Silk had already been taken off air by BBC bosses for the comments, in which he also described Arabs as "limb-amputators, women repressors". The remarks prompted outrage among Muslim groups. The slurry attack took place on Friday as Mr Kilroy-Silk and Ms Kelly, a Cabinet Office minister and Bolton West MP, arrived at Manchester High School for Girls for the recording of BBC Radio 4's Any Questions. The police were called but the attacker had disappeared by the time officers arrived. They are treating the incident as assault. The programme's host, Jonathan Dimbleby, later told the audience the MEP had been covered from "head to toe". Mr Kilroy-Silk was still able appear to appear on the show after being loaned a change of clothes. He told reporters he was "very angry" and planned to press charges if his attacker was caught. He said the man shouted: "You've offended my religion, I'm doing this in the name of Islam." "As I started
Britain's Kathy Butler continued her impressive year with victory in Sunday's 25th Cross Internacional de Venta de Banos in Spain. The Scot, who led GB to World Cross Country bronze earlier this year, moved away from the field with Ines Monteiro halfway into the 6.6km race. She then shrugged off her Portuguese rival to win in 20 minutes 38 seconds. Meanwhile, Briton Karl Keska battled bravely to finish seventh in the men's 10.6km race in a time of 31:41. Kenenisa Bekele of Ethiopia - the reigning world long and short course champion - was never troubled by any of the opposition, winning leisurely in 30.26. Butler said of her success: "I felt great throughout the race and hope this is a good beginning for a marvellous 2005 season for me." Elsewhere, Abebe Dinkessa of Ethiopia won the Brussels IAAF cross-country race on Sunday, completing the 10,500m course in 33.22. Gelete Burka then crowned a great day for Ethiopia by claiming victory in the women's race.
Oil prices retreated from four-month highs in early trading on Tuesday after producers' cartel Opec said it was now unlikely to cut production. Following the comments by acting Opec secretary general Adnan Shihab-Eldin, US light crude fell 32 cents to $51.43 a barrel. He said that high oil prices meant Opec was unlikely to stick to its plan to cut output in the second quarter. In London, Brent crude fell 32 cents to $49.74 a barrel. Opec members are next meeting to discuss production levels on 16 March. On Monday, oil prices rose for a sixth straight session, reaching a four-month high as cold weather in the US threatened stocks of heating oil. US demand for heating oil was predicted to be about 14% above normal this week, while stocks were currently about 7.5% below the levels of a year ago. Cold weather across Europe has also put upward pressure on crude prices.
Sony PlayStation 2's slimmer shape has proved popular with UK gamers, with 50,000 sold in its first week on sale. Sales have tripled since launch, outstripping Microsoft's Xbox, said market analysts Chart-Track. The numbers were also boosted by the release of the PS2-only game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. The title broke the UK sales record for video games in its first weekend of release. Latest figures suggest it has sold more than 677,000 copies. "It is obviously very, very encouraging for Sony because Microsoft briefly outsold them last week," John Houlihan, editor of Computerandvideogames.com told BBC News. "And with Halo 2 [for Xbox] out next week, it really is a head-to-head contest between them and Xbox." Although Xbox sales over the last week also climbed, PS2 sales were more than double that. The figures mean Sony is reaching the seven million barrier for UK sales of the console. Edinburgh-based developer, Rockstar, which is behind the GTA titles, has seen San Andreas pull in an estimated £24m in gross revenues over the weekend. In comparison, blockbuster films like Harry Potter and The Prisoner Of Azkaban took £11.5m in its first three days at the UK box office. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King took nearly £10m over its opening weekend, although games titles are four to five times more expensive than cinema tickets. Gangster-themed GTA San Andreas is the sequel to Grand Theft Auto Vice City which previously held the record for the fastest-selling video game
Ex-chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk has quit the UK Independence Party and accused it of betraying its supporters. The MEP said he was ashamed to have joined the party, which he labelled as a "joke". He plans to stand in the next general election but refused to confirm he is setting up a new political party called Veritas - Latin for truth. UKIP leader Roger Knapman said he would "break open the champagne", adding: "It was nice knowing him, now 'goodbye'." However, he did say the ex-chat show host had been "quite useful initially". "He has remarkable ability to influence people but, sadly, after the (European) election it became clear that he was more interested in the Robert Kilroy-Silk Party than the UK Independence Party so it was nice knowing him, now 'goodbye'," Mr Knapman told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Mr Knapman rejected the idea Mr Kilroy-Silk posed a threat to UKIP and queried why he had failed to confirm rumours he was starting a new political party. Mr Kilroy-Silk explained his reasons to his East Midlands constituents at a meeting in Hinckley, Leicestershire. His decision came as UKIP officials began a process which could have triggered Mr Kilroy-Silk's expulsion. It marks the end of his membership of UKIP after just nine months. It began with a flood of publicity which helped UKIP into third place in last June's European elections but became dominated by rancour as he tried to take over the party leadership. Mr Kilroy-Silk accused his
Partners of those who love their hi-tech gear may want to get their presents in early as experts predict a gadget shortage this Christmas. With Apple's iPod topping wish lists again, there may not be enough iPod minis to go round, predicts Oliver Irish, editor of gadget magazine Stuff. "The iPod mini is likely to be this year's Tracey Island," said Mr Irish. Stuff has compiled a list of the top 10 gadgets for 2004 and the iPod is at number one. For anyone bewildered by the choice of gadgets on the market, Stuff and What Hi-Fi? are hosting a best-of gadget show in London this weekend. Star of the show will be Sony's Qrio Robot, an all-singing, all-dancing, football-playing man-machine who can even hold intelligent conversations. But he is not for sale and Sony has no commercial plans for the robot. "He will greet visitors and is flying in from Japan. He probably has his own airplane seat, that is how highly Sony prize him," said Mr Irish. Also on display will be a virtual keyboard which projects itself onto any flat surface. The event will play host to a large collection of digital music players, from companies such as Creative, Sony and Philips as well as the ubiquitously fashionable iPod from Apple. Suggestions that it could be a gaming or wireless Christmas are unlikely to come true as MP3 players remain the most popular stocking filler, said Mr Irish. "Demand is huge and Apple has promised that it
Second seed Joachim Johansson won his second career title with a 7-5 6-3 win over Taylor Dent at the Australian hardcourt championships in Adelaide. The Swede was made to graft, American Dent surviving three break points in the fifth game of the match. But Johansson got the breakthrough with a sublime backhand return winner and won the second set with more ease. His first tournament win was at Memphis in 2004, helping him leap from 113th in the world rankings to number 11. Afterwards, Dent said he rated US Open semi-finalist Johansson as a top contender at the Australian Open, which starts on 17 January. "I believe men's tennis is all about holding serve and if he's playing like that on his own serve I don't see how guys are going to break him," said Dent. Johansson was more restrained in his assessment: "I have to improve my serve if I'm going to go all the way in Melbourne."
Voters' "pent up passion" could confound predictions of a low turnout in the coming general election, Charles Kennedy has said. The Liberal Democrat leader predicted concerns over Iraq and other international and domestic issue would express themselves during the campaign. His comments come as an inquiry looks at how best to boost voter turnouts. Ex-foreign secretary Robin Cook said people were not apathetic but fed up of "pager politics" and not being heard. He, like Mr Kennedy, pointed to the hundreds of thousands of people who demonstrated against plans for the Iraq war. Mr Cook, who is giving evidence to the Power inquiry into voter turnout rates, told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme it was not fair to blame the public who were "more interested in politics than ever before". "They are turned off by the way we do politics in Britain. There's a message there for politicians." He urged politicians to avoid negative campaigning and to "speak more from the heart". "We should be not so afraid to say what we stand for." He also criticised the cult of personality politics: "There's far too much interest in celebrities. "Politics are in danger of becoming another branch of the celebrity industry." The government has tried a number of things in an attempt to boost voter turnout, which fell to 59% in the last general election in 2001. This has included bringing in directly elected mayors to head local authorities and trialling postal voting.
A documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer George Michael will be shown at this year's Berlin Film Festival. A Different Story will screen in the Panorama section of the festival, which runs from 10-20 February. It features the singer talking about both his career and his personal life, from his days in Wham! through to more recent events. Michael will attend the festival to introduce the screening on 16 February. Director Southan Morris and executive producer Andy Stephens will also attend the festival. The 93 minute film will see Michael discussing his early days in Wham! along with his later career, including his legal battles with record label Sony and his stance against the Iraq war and American politics. It will also touch upon his turbulent personal life, including his arrest in a Beverly Hills park toilet in 1998 for "lewd behaviour", and the death of his boyfriend Anselmo Feleppa from Aids. The film, which includes previously unseen footage of the singer also features contributions from Michael's former Wham! partner Andrew Ridgeley, as well as ex-Wham! backing singers Pepsi and Shirlie. Other contributors include Sting, Mariah Carey, Elton John, Noel Gallagher, Geri Halliwell and Simon Cowell. This year's festival will open with Man To Man, a historical epic starring Joseph Fiennes and Kristin Scott-Thomas. It will be one of 21 films competing for the festival's top prize, the Golden Bear. Other films in competition will include The Life Aquatic, a quirky comedy starring Bill
Tory leader Michael Howard has accused Tony Blair of performing U-turns over rules on using force against burglars. The government has ruled out amending the present law, which allows "reasonable force" in self defence. Mr Howard branded the decision unacceptable, saying: "It is not householders who should be frightened, it's the burglars." Home Secretary Charles Clarke said ministers had kept to their pledge to review the law. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens last month backed a Tory attempt to change the law so only householders using "grossly disproportionate" force could be prosecuted. The pressure prompted the prime minister to say the police and Crown Prosecution Service would be consulted as part of a review of the law. He told MPs: "If we get the right response from those people, we will, of course, support a change in the law." Instead, the government has decided no change is needed but there will be a publicity campaign so people are clear they are entitled to defend themselves. On Thursday, Mr Howard told BBC Radio 4's Today programme Mr Blair had initially refused the law change, then had come round to the idea and was now backtracking again. He said: "We've had three policy positions in three months and two U-turns. "It's not surprising Gordon Brown told him: 'There's nothing you could say to me now that I could ever believe.'" Mr Howard said the "grossly disproportionate" test matched the hurdle ministers had introduced for civil cases where burglars where claimed compensation
The prime minister has defended measures to allow house arrest without trial, saying "several hundred" people in the UK are plotting terror attacks. The government is facing opposition from Tory and Lib Dem MPs and its own backbenchers as it prepares for the final Commons debate on the changes. But Tony Blair said there could be no concession on the "basic principle". Mr Blair told the BBC the "control orders" would only be used in the most limited circumstances. Critics in the opposition and civil rights activists are worried that the home secretary will have the power to issue the detention orders. But the government has so far resisted pressure for judges to be responsible for making the orders, instead saying judges will be able to quash them. An explanation is being sent by Home Secretary Charles Clarke to all MPs and peers ahead of the final debate in the House of Commons. On Sunday, Conservative shadow home secretary David Davis claimed judges would get the powers to issue detention orders. And Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said some concessions had already been offered by the government during last-minute negotiations. Some 32 Labour MPs voted against the legislation last week. Barbara Follett, whose first husband was killed while under house arrest in South Africa during the apartheid era, confirmed she would vote against the government. But the government is continuing to insist that "control orders" must be issued by the home secretary. Mr Blair told BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour:
A prospective candidate for the UK Independence Party (UKIP) has resigned after admitting a "brief attachment" to the British National Party(BNP). Nicholas Betts-Green, who had been selected to fight the Suffolk Coastal seat, quit after reports in a newspaper that he attended a BNP meeting. The former teacher confirmed he had attended the meeting but said that was the only contact he had with the group. Mr Betts-Green resigned after being questioned by the party's leadership. A UKIP spokesman said Mr Betts-Green's resignation followed disclosures in the East Anglian Daily Times last month about his attendance at a BNP meeting. "He did once attend a BNP meeting. He did not like what he saw and heard and will take no further part of it," the spokesman added. A meeting of Suffolk Coastal UKIP members is due to be held next week to discuss a replacement. Mr Betts-Green, of Woodbridge, Suffolk, has also resigned as UKIP's branch chairman.
Mark Lewis-Francis says his Olympic success has made him determined to bag World Championship 100m gold in 2005. The 22-year-old pipped Maurice Greene on the last leg of the 4x100m relay in Athens to take top honours for Team GB. But individually, the Birchfield Harrier has yet to build on his World Junior Championship win four years ago. "The gold medal in Athens has made me realise that I can get to the top level and I want to get there again. It can happen, I don't see why not," he said. Lewis-Francis has still to decided what events will feature in his build-up to the worlds - with one exception. He has confirmed his participation in the Norwich Union Grand Prix in Birmingham on 18 February, where he will take on another member of Britain's victorious men's relay team - Jason Gardener - over 60m. He added: "It's a bit too early to make any predictions for Helsinki, but I have my eyes open and I know I can be the best in the world."
Scotland's justice minister has warned bigoted soccer fans that she wants to hit them "where it hurts most" by banning them from matches. Cathy Jamieson said exclusion orders are one of a series of measures being considered in the Scottish Executive campaign against sectarianism. She praised Celtic and Rangers for their work in tackling the problem. However, the minister said stopping sectarian abuse associated with Old Firm matches is a key objective. Ms Jamieson was speaking ahead of the third round Scottish Cup clash between the Glasgow clubs at Parkhead on Sunday. The sectarianism long associated with sections of the support from both clubs has become a significant target for the executive. Last week Ms Jamieson and First Minister Jack McConnell met supporters' representatives from both clubs to discuss the issue. They plan to hold an anti-sectarian summit next month with officials from the clubs, church leaders, senior police officers and local authority chiefs among those to be invited. Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland's Sunday Live programme, Ms Jamieson described Friday's meeting as "very productive" and said putting the squeeze on the bigots would be a key aim. Ms Jamieson stressed that sectarianism has not been confined to football but it can act as a "trigger" for tensions and violence. Clubs have taken action in the past to ban troublesome fans and supporters' groups expressed their desire to ensure that the game is no longer tainted by the problem. Ms Jamieson said the executive should have a role in tackling
Labour and the Tories have clashed over tax and spending plans as the row over Gordon Brown's Budget turned into a full scale pre-election battle. Tony Blair claimed a Tory government would "cut" £35bn from public services hitting schools, hospitals and police. Tory chairman Liam Fox accused Labour of "at best misrepresentation at worst a downright lie" and said the "smear" tactics were a sign of desperation. The Lib Dems accused Mr Brown of ducking the issue of council tax rises. Appearing together at a Labour poster launch, the prime minister hailed his chancellor's "brilliant" performance. And he claimed the Tories would cut £35bn from public services, which was the equivalent of sacking every doctor and teacher in the UK. The Tories said they would not cut spending but agreed public spending would increase more slowly under their plans - leading to a total of £33.5bn less spending than that anticipated by Labour by 2011. But they say not a single doctor, teacher or nurse will be cut. Dr Fox said: "We have said we will be spending more, year on year over and above inflation. "And to call that a cut is at best a misrepresentation, at worst a downright lie." Tory shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin also predicted Mr Brown would have to raise taxes by £10bn or £11bn if Labour was re-elected because he was borrowing and spending too much. For the Lib Dems, Vince Cable said the chancellor had failed to deal with the "looming problems" of
Indie dance band Kasabian built up a cult following throughout 2004 to secure three Brit Award nominations. The four-piece Leicester band blends dark electronics with rock, earning Kasabian places on the best British group, rock act and live act shortlists. They have also earned a reputation as outspoken and charismatic, in contrast to fellow Brit nominees such as Keane and Snow Patrol. "British music needs a kick up the arse and Britain needs a new band to breathe life into the British people again," declared Kasabian's singer Tom Meighan. "No-one's doing it at the minute. Music feels like it's in the afterlife right now. We don't want people to give up on it. "The serpent's going to rise from the sea and scare all the pirates away!" Meighan grew up in Leicester with Kasabian songwriter/guitarist Sergio Pizzorno and bassist Chris Edwards, a trio which began making music from the age of 17. They enlisted guitarist and keyboard player Christopher Karloff after spotting him in a pub. "We saw his long sideburns and thought 'hey, he looks the part, we'll ask him,'" said Meighan. Inspired by Britpop and a mutual love of hardcore, an early 1990s genre that fused house music with hip hop beats and a dark sensibility, they added an electronic element to the traditional guitar sound. "We got a computer and we cut rock'n'roll up, because there's no point in going back to how it was," said Meighan. "It's all about new ideas and creativity." The band's original
Slovakia clinched the Hopman Cup for the second time by beating Argentina 3-0 in Saturday's final in Perth. Daniela Hantuchova put the third seeds ahead, recovering from a terrible start to beat Gisela Dulko 1-6 6-4 6-4. Dominik Hrbaty, who had not lost a set in his three singles matches in the group stages, then upset world number seven Guillermo Coria 6-4 6-1. Hantuchova and Hrbaty then won the mixed doubles after Coria was forced to withdraw because of a sore back. Slovakia's win made up for last year's final defeat to the United States. "I would like to congratulate Daniela," Hrbaty said. "I was so nervous watching her today, I almost had a heart attack. "I also feel a little sorry for Guillermo because I get very excited whenever I play for my country. I show lots of emotions and played such good tennis." World number 31 Hantuchova, ranked two places above Dulko, looked nervous as she dropped the first four games of the match. Dulko, who had lost all three of her singles matches in the group stages, grew in confidence and took the opening set in just 27 minutes. But Hantuchova hit back to take the next two and the match. "I was so nervous because I really wanted to win for the team and for Dominik as he played so well all week," she said. "I didn't think I was playing my best but I just tried to hang in there and fight hard for every
Industrial and Commercial Bank (ICBC), China's biggest lender, has seen an 18% jump in profits during 2004. The increase in earnings has allowed the firm to write off bad loans and pave the way for a state bailout and eventual stock-market listing. China is trying to clean up its banking system, which is weighed down by billions of dollars of unpaid loans. It has already pumped $45bn (£24bn) into two of its largest banks, and has identified ICBC as a recipient of aid. ICBC's profits were 74.7bn yuan ($9bn; £4.8bn) in 2004, the bank said in a statement. The percentage of non-performing loans dropped to 19.1%, down about 2 percentage points. ICBC was founded in 1984 and had total assets of 5.3 trillion yuan at the end of 2003. China committed to gradually opening up its banking sector when it joined the World Trade Organisation in 2002.
The owner of the technology-dominated Nasdaq stock index plans to sell shares to the public and list itself on the market it operates. According to a registration document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Nasdaq Stock Market plans to raise $100m (£52m) from the sale. Some observers see this as another step closer to a full public listing. However Nasdaq, an icon of the 1990s technology boom, recently poured cold water on those suggestions. The company first sold shares in private placements during 2000 and 2001. It technically went public in 2002 when the stock started trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, which lists equities that trade only occasionally. Nasdaq will not make money from the sale, only investors who bought shares in the private placings, the filing documents said. The Nasdaq is made up shares in technology firms and other companies with high growth potential. It was the most potent symbol of the 1990s internet and telecoms boom, nose-diving after the bubble burst. A recovery in the fortunes of tech giants such as Intel, and dot.com survivors such as Amazon has helped revive its fortunes.
UK citizens suspected of involvement in terrorism could face house arrest as part of a series of new measures outlined by the home secretary. It comes after law lords ruled that the detention of 12 foreign terror suspects without trial breached human rights. Charles Clarke's planned "control orders" mean anyone suspected of being involved in terrorism could be subject to house arrest, curfews or tagging. The Law Society dubbed Mr Clarke's new proposals an "abuse of power". Deals are already being sought to deport some of the foreign detainees who are mainly held in Belmarsh Prison in London under the current laws introduced after the US terror attacks on 11 September 2001. Mr Clarke said efforts would continue to deport them to their countries of origin Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt and Jordan without them facing torture or death. Under the proposed changes - prompted by the House of Lords ruling - the home secretary could order British citizens or foreign suspects who could not be deported, to face house arrest or other measures such as restrictions on their movements or limits on their use of telephones and the internet. British citizens are being included in the changes after the law lords said the current powers were discriminatory because they could only be used on foreign suspects. Mr Clarke also said intelligence reports showed some British nationals were now playing a more significant role in terror threats. Human rights lawyer Clive Stafford-Smith said the plans were a "further abuse of human rights
Strong sales outside western Europe helped Renault boost its profits by more than 40% in 2004 although the firm warned of lower margins this year. France's second largest carmaker enjoyed a healthy 43% rise in net profits to 2.4bn euros ($3.1bn; £2.9bn) as sales rose 8% to 40.7bn euros. The firm said strong demand outside western Europe and the good performance of its Megane range lifted its results. Chairman Louis Schweitzer said 2004 had been a "great year" for the firm. Renault sold more than 2.4 million vehicles in 2004, an increase of 4% on the previous year. Growth came mainly from outside western Europe, with particularly strong sales in Turkey, Russia and North Africa. In total, sales outside western Europe - Renault's core market - rose 16.5%. Japanese carmaker Nissan - in which Renault owns a 44% stake - contributed 1.7bn euros in net income over the year. Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn is to succeed Mr Schweitzer at the head of Renault later this year. Renault said the outlook for the industry in Europe this year was "stable", with small growth forecast in other regions. The firm will benefit from the launch of a new Clio model in the coming year and the roll-out of the Logan in many markets. However, the firm said it expected operating margins to be lower in 2005, at 4% of sales as opposed to 5%. "In a sluggish market and an environment impacted by the rise in raw material prices, Renault intends to
Revenues at media group Reuters slipped 11% during 2004, mainly due to the weakness of the dollar, the group said. The company said it was optimistic about growth even as revenues slipped 11% from £3.24bn ($6.13bn) in 2003 to £2.89bn in 2004. Reuters beat profit forecasts, posting a 52% rise in profits for the year to £198m from the £130m seen a year earlier. Reuters also beat its savings target for 2004, delivering £234m of cuts. Under its three-year Fast Forward turnaround plan it had aimed to save £220m during the 12 months to 31 December. Reuters also managed to slow a decline in underlying revenues to 5.4% from 10.2% in 2003 and cut its debt back to £160m from £610m a year earlier. The news and financial data seller said the year had begun well, adding it expected "further gradual improvement" in the second quarter of the year after good January sales. It added it was planning to deliver a further £105m of savings over the coming year - but said it expects to be hit with an £80m restructuring charge to pay for the cost of moving from Fleet Street to new headquarters in London at Canary Wharf. "Improving customer relationships, more competitive products and continued strong cost discipline position us well for 2005," chief executive Tom Glocer said, adding the company was beginning "to look beyond recovery to growth".
Former Worldcom boss Bernie Ebbers, who is accused of overseeing an $11bn (£5.8bn) fraud, never made accounting decisions, a witness has told jurors. David Myers made the comments under questioning by defence lawyers who have been arguing that Mr Ebbers was not responsible for Worldcom's problems. The phone company collapsed in 2002 and prosecutors claim that losses were hidden to protect the firm's shares. Mr Myers has already pleaded guilty to fraud and is assisting prosecutors. On Monday, defence lawyer Reid Weingarten tried to distance his client from the allegations. During cross examination, he asked Mr Myers if he ever knew Mr Ebbers "make an accounting decision?". "Not that I am aware of," Mr Myers replied. "Did you ever know Mr Ebbers to make an accounting entry into Worldcom books?" Mr Weingarten pressed. "No," replied the witness. Mr Myers has admitted that he ordered false accounting entries at the request of former Worldcom chief financial officer Scott Sullivan. Defence lawyers have been trying to paint Mr Sullivan, who has admitted fraud and will testify later in the trial, as the mastermind behind Worldcom's accounting house of cards. Mr Ebbers' team, meanwhile, are looking to portray him as an affable boss, who by his own admission is more PE graduate than economist. Whatever his abilities, Mr Ebbers transformed Worldcom from a relative unknown into a $160bn telecoms giant and investor darling of the late 1990s. Worldcom's problems mounted, however, as competition increased and the telecoms boom petered out. When the firm
Sol Campbell proved to be an unlikely match-winner to earn Arsenal a hard-fought win at Portsmouth. The England defender lashed home a 25-yard shot for his first goal in 16 months to take Arsenal back into second spot, five points behind Chelsea. But before Campbell scored the best two chances of the game fell to Pompey striker Ricardo Fuller. In the first half he blasted wide when clear, and his control let him down in the second half when well placed. Portsmouth got plenty of bodies behind the ball to deny Arsenal space in the early stages. But their marking was slack at a corner and Patrick Vieira should have done better when the ball fell to him 16 yards out. A mistake by Arjan de Zeeuw let Thierry Henry in behind the Pompey defence on 17 minutes but as he bore down on goal Linvoy Primus got in a saving tackle. With just Fuller as an out-and-out striker, Portsmouth's shape made life difficult for Arsenal. But a delightful touch by Robin van Persie gave Henry a sight of goal, although the angle was too tight for his shot to trouble Jamie Ashdown. Ashdown caused hearts to flutter on 28 minutes when he missed his punch at a corner and Kolo Toure headed just wide and, as Arsenal began to press, Van Persie blasted over a good opportunity after Henry had set him up. Henry took a quick return pass from Vieira but Ashdown was out quickly to block, and
For an international manager, a friendly provides an important opportunity to work with your players. The only problem is that the game itself can often be a farce. Some people have been saying it would be better to get the players together for the week, and do away with the 90 minutes at the end. I would say it's 50-50 whether you should have these games or not, and if you look at it that way you would probably say you're better not doing so. It would certainly keep club managers happy, as it would reduce the risk of players returning to domestic duty injured. But international bosses will tell you that scrapping friendlies is counterproductive because the only way for a team to get better is by playing. The more you play together, the easier it is when it comes to the crunch in games like World Cup quarter-finals against Brazil. Often in friendlies, though, a manager will play his strongest side for the first 45 minutes and then send out an entirely different one in the second half. And it's very difficult for any player to come on as substitute in a side with a few changes, let alone a whole team's worth. The debate will rage on, and I'm not sure there is a satisfactory solution. One manager who has got it right this week is Walter Smith. The new Scotland manager has decided to have a training camp instead of a friendly for his first international
Former Cabinet minister Clare Short has criticised the US-led tsunami aid coalition, saying the UN should be leading efforts. President Bush has announced that an alliance of the US, India, Australia and Japan will co-ordinate a humanitarian drive. But Ms Short said the effect of the parallel coalition would be to undermine the UN. She said only the UN had the "moral authority" to lead the relief work. Ms Short resigned as international development secretary over the Iraq war. "I think this initiative from America to set up four countries claiming to co-ordinate sounds like yet another attempt to undermine the UN when it is the best system we have got and the one that needs building up," she said. "Only really the UN can do that job," she told BBC Radio Four's PM programme. "It is the only body that has the moral authority. But it can only do it well if it is backed up by the authority of the great powers." Ms Short said the countries involved could not boast good records on their response to major disasters. The US was "very bad at coordinating with anyone" and India had its own problems, Ms Short said. "I don't know what that is about but it sounds very much, I am afraid, like the US trying to have a separate operation and not work with the rest of the world through the UN system," she added.
Two days of talks on the future of Gibraltar begin at Jack Straw's country residence later on Wednesday. Officials at the two-day summit at the foreign secretary's official Kent house, Chevening, will plan a new forum on the Rock's future. In October, Mr Straw and his Spanish counterpart Miguel Moratinos agreed to establish a body that would give Gibraltarians a voice in their future. Most Gibraltarians said in a referendum they wanted to remain British. Gibraltar's Chief Minister Peter Caruana will represent the British citizens living on the Rock, while Britain's Europe Director Dominick Chilcott will represent the UK. Madrid is being represented by Spain's director general for Europe, Jose Maria Pons. The initiative follows Spain's socialist government's decision to put its long-standing sovereignty ambitions on hold. Gibraltarians rejected plans for the Rock's sovereignty to be shared between Britain and Spain in a referendum organised by Gibraltar government.
Tony Blair is urging European leaders to wake up from their "state of denial" over President Bush's re-election. "America has spoken. The rest of the world should listen," the prime minister said in an interview with The Times newspaper, published on Friday. Mr Blair is at a summit in Brussels, where Iraq and European justice and immigration plans are on the agenda. French President Jacques Chirac reacted to his warning by saying Europe instead needed to reinforce its own unity. Mr Blair has probably been closer to President Bush than any other European leader. He said some people were in "a sort of state of denial" about the US election result but predicted a more "receptive mood" would emerge soon. America needed to listen to the world too, he said. "The fact is that President Bush is there for four years. He is there because the American people have chosen him," he argued. He also made clear he intended to take seriously what he perceives as his role in bringing the two continents together. Britain was "uniquely placed" to make out the common ground because of its strong alliance with the US, he suggested. He admitted he had gone to bed at 2230GMT, well before the American polls closed, thinking Mr Kerry might have won. He woke up at 0530GMT to discover Mr Bush had won but declined to say if he was pleased with the eventual result. His words about President Bush met a cool reception from Jacques Chirac.
The permanent replacement for late DJ John Peel's BBC Radio 1 show goes on air on Tuesday, with three hosts chosen to fill the legendary presenter's slot. Rock DJ Huw Stephens will go on air in the 2300 slot every Tuesday, with black music champion Ras Kwame on Wednesdays and dance DJ Rob Da Bank on Thursdays. Rob Da Bank filled in after Peel had a heart attack aged 65 in October. All three will play "diverse, unpredictable and non-commercial" songs under the banner of the OneMusic show. Radio 1 said the station was not trying to replace Peel, but would rise to the "challenge" of "keeping his legacy alive" with unpredictable music. The three DJs were chosen for their "in-depth musical knowledge across a variety of musical genres", the station said. Rob Da Bank is one of the hosts of The Blue Room, an early morning weekend show which plays electronic and dance music. Huw Stephens has been one half of the Thursday night show Bethan and Huw in Wales, which explores new music, especially up-and-coming acts in Wales. And Ras Kwame is host of 100% Homegrown on Radio 1's digital station 1Xtra, dedicated to showcasing the best hip-hop and garage. Another change to the station line-up will see Sara Cox return after maternity leave. She will host the lunchtime show on Saturdays from this week. Good luck to all three of them, not one DJ could fill Peels boots so it's probably a good idea to get them
Oscar-winning animator Hayao Miyazaki's latest film, Howl's Moving Castle, is to be released in 50 countries around the world, its distributor has said. Howl's Moving Castle set a Japanese box office record last week, taking 1.5bn yen (£7.7m) in its first two days. Miyazaki won an Oscar earlier this year for Spirited Away, Japan's first Academy Award for nearly 50 years. Howl's Moving Castle is based on a children's fantasy novel by UK author Diana Wynne Jones. It tells the story of an 18-year-old woman who ages dramatically after falling under a witch's spell. She heads to a moving castle kept by Howl, a wizard, and searches for a way to become normal again. A spokesman for distributor Toho said the film "has received strong interest from domestic audiences and foreign media and viewers alike". "We have a good feeling about this film. We saw very good viewer response," he added. The film's worldwide release will start in South Korea on 24 December, and France on 12 January.
A row over the colour orange could hit the courts after mobile phone giant Orange launched action against a new mobile venture from Easyjet's founder. Orange said it was starting proceedings against the Easymobile service for trademark infringement. Easymobile uses Easygroup's orange branding. Founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou has pledged to contest the action. The move comes after the two sides failed to come to an agreement after six months of talks. Orange claims the new low-cost mobile service has infringed its rights regarding the use of the colour orange and could confuse customers - known as "passing off". "Our brand, and the rights associated with it are extremely important to us," Orange said in a statement. "In the absence of any firm commitment from Easy, we have been left with no choice but to start an action for trademark infringement and passing off." However, Mr Haji-Ioannou, who plans to launch Easymobile next month, vowed to fight back, saying: "We have nothing to be afraid of in this court case. "It is our right to use our own corporate colour for which we have become famous during the last 10 years." The Easyjet founder also said he planned to add a disclaimer to the Easygroup website to ensure customers are aware the Easymobile brand has no connection to Orange. The new service is the latest venture from Easygroup, which includes a chain of internet cafes, budget car rentals and an intercity bus service. Easymobile will allow customers to go online to order
Argentina is set to close its $102.6bn (£53.51bn) debt restructuring offer for bondholders later on Friday, with the government hopeful that most creditors will accept the deal. The estimated loss to bondholders is up to 70% of the original value of the bonds, yet the majority are expected to accept the government's offer. Argentina defaulted on its debt three years ago, the biggest sovereign default in modern history. Yesterday Argentina's economy minister, Roberto Lavagna, said that he estimated that the results of the restructuring would be ready around next Thursday (3 March). Argentina's President, Nestor Kirchner, said on Friday: "A year ago when we started the swap (negotiations), they told us we were crazy, that we were irrational." But he added that his government was close to achieving: "The best debt renegotiation in history." The country has been in default on the $102.6bn - based on an original debt of $81.8bn plus interest - for the past three years. If the offer does not go ahead, international lawsuits on behalf of aggrieved investors could follow but analysts are optimistic that it will go through, despite the tough terms for bondholders. About 70% to 80% of bondholders are expected to accept the terms of the offer. By 18 February, creditors holding $41bn - or 40% of the total debt - had accepted the offer. Sorting out its debt would enhance the country's credibility on international markets and enable it to attract more foreign investment. Of Argentina's bondholders, 38.4% reside in Argentina,
The rewards of leaving front-bench politics are shown in the latest annual register of members' interests. The register shows former Tory leader William Hague earning up to £820,000 on top of his MPs' salary, much of it from speaking fees. His former shadow chancellor Michael Portillo makes up to £560,000 a year - partly because of speeches and TV work. Ex-health secretary Alan Milburn earned up to £85,000 from speeches, articles and advice while not in the Cabinet. Mr Milburn was away from the frontbench for just more than a year between stepping down as health secretary and becoming Labour's election supremo. His declared interests include £20,000 from newspaper articles and fees of up to £35,000 for four speeches. He also commanded a salary of between £25,000 and £35,000 for being on investment company Bridgepoint Capital's European advisory committee. His time out of office will, however, have lost him his £71,433 minister's salary. Mr Hague's work outside Parliament included two one-man shows, which with other speaking fees netted him up to £480,000. He also earned up to £195,000 for a weekly column in the News of the World, and between £5,000 and £10,000 for presenting BBC'2's Have I Got News for You. Mr Hague was also paid an undisclosed amount for the newspaper serialisation of his biography of William Pitt the Younger and up to £135,00 for work as an adviser to various companies. Former Defence Secretary Michael Portillo makes some of his money as a non-executive director of BAE
Hospital waiting times for patients in Wales are to be cut, but not to the same extent as those in England. Welsh Health Minister Jane Hutt said no patient would wait more than 12 months for an outpatient appointment by March 2006, against a current target of 18 months. But she said the target for an inpatient appointment would remain at 12 months for March 2006. The announcement came as new monthly waiting figures showed a drop. This current inpatient target was set when the assembly government extended its second offer guarantee scheme, which gives patients the option of having their treatment outside Wales. Details about funding to resource the new targets are expected in the New Year. In England, the current target for inpatients - seeing a consultant to having an operation - is six months. Dr Richard Lewis, Welsh secretary of the British Medical Association (BMA), welcomed the new targets "to make further and faster progress on waiting lists". "However, much remains to be done on waiting lists and waiting times because Wales still lags a long way behind England," he said. "Capacity must be built into the system with sustained investment to ensure that Welsh patients don't receive a worse service than patients over the border." Health analyst Tony Beddow, from the Welsh Institute for Health and Social Care, called the new targets "reasonably impressive". On Wednesday, Ms Hutt also announced £264m for health services will be spent reducing waiting times, improving key areas and modernising staff
Irish publishing group Independent News & Media is buying up a 26% stake in Indian newspaper company Jagran in a deal worth 25m euros ($34.1m). Jagran publishes India's top-selling daily newspaper, the Hindi-language Dainik Jagran, which has been in circulation for 62 years. News of the deal came as the group announced that its results would meet market forecasts. The company reported strong revenue growth across all its major markets. Group advertising revenues were up over 10% year-on-year, the group said, with overall circulation revenues are expected to increase almost 10% year-on-year. This was helped by the positive impact of "compact" newspaper editions in Ireland and the UK, it said. "2004 has proven to be an important year for Independent News & Media," said chief executive Sir Anthony O'Reilly. "Our simple aim at Independent is to be the low cost producer in every region in which we operate. I am confident that we will show a meaningful increase in earnings for 2005." Meanwhile, the group made no comment about the future of the Independent newspaper despite recent speculation that Sir Anthony had held talks with potential buyers over a stake in the daily publication. He has consistently denied suggestions that the Independent and the Independent on Sunday are up for sale. Buy it is understood that the recent success of the smaller edition of the Independent, which has pushed circulation up by 20% to 260,000, has prompted interest from industry rivals, with Daily Mail & General Trust tipped as the
Murrayfield, Edinburgh Saturday, 26 February 1400 GMT BBC1, Five Live and this website Victory for the Azzurri in Rome last year saw Scotland end their campaign without a victory. And the pressure is on Scotland coach Matt Williams as he seeks a first Six Nations victory at the eighth attempt. Italy have lost both their opening games at home to Ireland and Wales, but travel to Edinburgh with high hopes. Their coach John Kirwan has warned his side they must eradicate the errors that blighted their loss to Wales however or risk suffering a third successive defeat. "If the defeat against Wales has taught us anything, it's that at this level we can't make any mistakes," Kirwan said. "In the Six Nations, every error you make will come at a high price. "We have to be aggressive for 80 minutes, keep calm in every situation and display great maturity on the pitch. "It will be fundamental to keep cool in the difficult moments - in the key situations of the game." Kirwan has recalled the experienced Cristian Stoica at centre and drafted in David dal Maso at open-side after star flanker Mauro Bergamasco was ruled out for the rest of the tournament. Scotland have also made two changes, Simon Webster replacing Simon Danielli on the wing and Simon Taylor returning for his first Test in a year, for injured flanker Jason White. Taylor's recovery from a serious knee injury is a major boost to Scottish hopes. "He is one of
News Corporation is seeking to buy out minority investors in Fox Entertainment Group, its broadcasting subsidiary, for about $5.4bn (£3.7bn). The media giant, run by Rupert Murdoch, owns 82% of the shares in the company, home to the Fox television network and the 20th Century Fox film studio. The move follows News Corp's decision to register its business in the US. 20th Century Fox's recent film releases include I Heart Huckabees and I, Robot, while Fox puts out hit TV series 24. Under the terms of the offer, minority Fox shareholders will receive 1.90 News Corp shares in return for each Fox share they hold. Analysts said the decision to list News Corp in the US - which will result in the firm's shares trading in New York rather than Sydney- nullified the need to retain a separate stock market listing for Fox Entertainment shares. News Corp investors voted in October to approve the transfer of the company's corporate domicile from Australia to the US state of Delaware. The move is designed to help News Corp attract more investment from the largest US financial institutions, and make it easier to raise capital. Fox Entertainment Group generated revenues of $12bn last year. News Corp shares fell 25 cents to $17.65 after the share offer was announced while Fox shares were up 19 cents at $31.22.
All four of England's Champions League representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time. Arsenal and Chelsea are seeded as group winners, while runners-up Manchester United and Liverpool are not. Rules stipulate that teams from the same country or group will be kept apart in the draw on 17 December. The favourites are Chelsea and Barcelona, and Real Madrid, the two Milan sides, Juventus and Bayern Munich are among the 16 still in the hat. Steven Gerrard's last-gasp wonder-strike secured qualification for against Olympiakos on Wednesday evening. AC Milan, Bayer Leverkusen, Internazionale, Juventus, Lyon. who had already qualified, fielded a second-string side and went down 3-0 to Fenerbahce. AC Milan, Bayer Leverkusen, Internazionale, Juventus, Monaco. On Tuesday, finished top of their group with a 5-1 win over the Rosenborg after drawing four of their first five matches. Barcelona, Bayern Munich, Porto, Real Madrid, Werder Bremen , who had already qualified lost 2-1 to Porto as Jose Mourinho made an unhappy return to his former club. Barcelona, Bayern Munich, PSV Eindhoven, Real Madrid, Werder Bremen.
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has called for radical reform of the EU's stability pact to grant countries more flexibility over their budget deficits. Mr Schroeder said existing fiscal rules should be loosened to allow countries to run deficits above the current 3% limit if they met certain criteria. Writing in the Financial Times, Mr Schroeder also said heads of government should have a greater say in reforms. Changes to the pact are due to be agreed at an economic summit in March. The current EU rules limit the size of a eurozone country's deficit to 3% of GDP. Countries which exceed the threshold are liable to heavy fines by the European Commission, although several countries, including Germany, have breached the rules consistently since 2002 without facing punishment. The European Commission acknowledged last month that it would not impose sanctions on countries who break the rules. Mr Schroeder - a staunch supporter of the pact when it was set up in the 1990s - said exemptions were now needed to take into account the cost of domestic reform programmes and changing economic conditions. "The stability pact will work better if intervention by European institutions in the budgetary sovereignty of national parliaments is only permitted under very limited conditions," he wrote. "Only if their competences are respected will the member states be willing to align their policies more consistently with the economic goals of the EU." Deficits should be allowed to rise above 3%, Mr Schroeder argued, if countries meet several "mandatory
Conservative leader Michael Howard has admitted he used to play truant to spend time with his school friends at a snooker hall. Mr Howard said his time at Jack's Snooker Hall in Llanelli in the 1950s had not done him "any lasting damage". But he told the Times Educational Supplement that truancy was "very bad" and said "firm action" was needed. Mr Howard also called for a return to O-levels and more classroom discipline. Mr Howard eventually left Llanelli Grammar School - and the snooker hall - to go to Cambridge University. He said: "I don't think it's done me any lasting damage. Nor has it made me a snooker world champion. "There might have been some occasions when we left early of an afternoon. "I'm just being honest. I think truancy is a very bad thing and that firm action should be taken to deal with it." Another player who has failed to win snooker's world championship - Jimmy "the Whirlwind " White - has previously admitted missing lessons, instead spending his days in smoky halls. "Tony Meo [another player] and me used to spend all of our spare time there," Mr White said, "We loved the game and the atmosphere. "School went out of the window. I went for a while and then started taking time off." Mr Howard's fellow Welshman Ray Reardon - known by his fellow professionals as "Dracula" - won the snooker world championship six times, having left school at 14 to work as a
There is a power whose inspiration fills Nature's fair fabric, sun- and star-inwrought, Like airy dew ere any drop distils, Like perfume in the laden flower, like aught Unseen which interfused throughout the whole Becomes its quickening pulse and principle and soul. Now when, the drift of old desire renewing, Warm tides flow northward over valley and field, When half-forgotten sound and scent are wooing From their deep-chambered recesses long sealed Such memories as breathe once more Of childhood and the happy hues it wore, Now, with a fervor that has never been In years gone by, it stirs me to respond, -- Not as a force whose fountains are within The faculties of the percipient mind, Subject with them to darkness and decay, But something absolute, something beyond, Oft met like tender orbs that seem to peer From pale horizons, luminous behind Some fringe of tinted cloud at close of day; And in this flood of the reviving year, When to the loiterer by sylvan streams, Deep in those cares that make Youth loveliest, Nature in every common aspect seems To comment on the burden in his breast -- The joys he covets and the dreams he dreams -- One then with all beneath the radiant skies That laughs with him or sighs, It courses through the lilac-scented air, A blessing on the fields, a wonder everywhere. Spirit of Beauty, whose sweet impulses, Flung like the rose of dawn across the sea, Alone can flush the exalted consciousness With
How grace this hallowed day? Shall happy bells, from yonder ancient spire, Send their glad greetings to each Christmas fire Round which the children play? Alas! for many a moon, That tongueless tower hath cleaved the Sabbath air, Mute as an obelisk of ice, aglare Beneath an Arctic noon. Shame to the foes that drown Our psalms of worship with their impious drum, The sweetest chimes in all the land lie dumb In some far rustic town. There, let us think, they keep, Of the dead Yules which here beside the sea They've ushered in with old-world, English glee, Some echoes in their sleep. How shall we grace the day? With feast, and song, and dance, and antique sports, And shout of happy children in the courts, And tales of ghost and fay? Is there indeed a door, Where the old pastimes, with their lawful noise, And all the merry round of Christmas joys, Could enter as of yore? Would not some pallid face Look in upon the banquet, calling up Dread shapes of battles in the wassail cup, And trouble all the place? How could we bear the mirth, While some loved reveler of a year ago Keeps his mute Christmas now beneath the snow, In cold Virginian earth? How shall we grace the day? Ah! let the thought that on this holy morn The Prince of Peace -- the Prince of Peace was born, Employ us, while we pray! Pray for the peace which long Hath left this
Man's rich with little, were his judgment true; Nature is frugal, and her wants are few; Those few wants answer'd, bring sincere delights; But fools create themselves new appetites: Fancy and pride seek things at vast expense, Which relish not to reason, nor to sense. When surfeit, or unthankfulness, destroys, In nature's narrow sphere, our solid joys, In fancy's airy land of noise and show, Where nought but dreams, no real pleasures grow; Like cats in air-pumps, to subsist we strive On joys too thin to keep the soul alive. Lemira's sick; make haste; the doctor call: He comes; but where's his patient? At the ball. The doctor stares; her woman curt'sies low, And cries, "My lady, sir, is always so: Diversions put her maladies to flight; True, she can't stand, but she can dance all night: I've known my lady (for she loves a tune) For fevers take an opera in June: And, though perhaps you'll think the practice bold, A midnight park is sovereign for a cold: With colics, breakfasts of green fruit agree; With indigestions, supper just at three." A strange alternative, replied Sir Hans, Must women have a doctor, or a dance? Though sick to death, abroad they safely roam, But droop and die, in perfect health, at home: For want--but not of health, are ladies ill; And tickets cure beyond the doctor's bill.
The sky is an immortal tent built by the Sons of Los: And every space that a man views around his dwelling-place Standing on his own roof or in his garden on a mount Of twenty-five cubits in height, such space is his universe: And on its verge the sun rises and sets, the clouds bow To meet the flat earth and the sea in such an order'd space: The starry heavens reach no further, but here bend and set On all sides, and the two Poles turn on their valves of gold: And if he moves his dwelling-place, his heavens also move Where'er he goes, and all his neighbourhood bewail his loss. Such are the spaces called Earth and such its dimension. As to that false appearance which appears to the reasoner As of a globe rolling through voidness, it is a delusion of Ulro. The microscope knows not of this nor the telescope: they alter The ratio of the spectator's organs, but leave objects untouch'd. For every space larger than a red globule of Man's blood Is visionary, and is created by the Hammer of Los; And every space smaller than a globule of Man's blood opens Into Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow. The red globule is the unwearied sun by Los created To measure time and space to mortal men every morning.
Trot, trot, slap, slap, trot, trot, slap, slap lone highway, it is hot and lots of inner strength on tap a marathon it's not. Those training runs I used to do in early morning cool and never wear a single shoe some neighbours call me fool. Thick fog one day. I could not see the houses as I passed my energy was running free inside, though, I was gassed. That barbecue with chilli beans and Weihenstephan beer had given me (through carbs) the means to run in seventh gear. But, beans explode and leave behind the puff of fifty dragons on contact insects do go blind the sound is like Volkswagens. In front of a most stately home a thunderbolt shot out it scared a handsome garden gnome and there she stood, a Kraut! 'Zo, doo yoo ssink it helps yoo runn much faaster ssroo ze bresher? ' 'Oh no', I said it is pure fun and after I feel fresher.' She nodded then, as if to think when, once again, it blew I gave a small but playful wink as if I had a clou. A cloud had formed around the place I made my get-away a crimson red was on my face I could no longer stay. With all the speed at my command I sprinted through the fog Behind, the words 'I underschdand yoo faaard und runn like dogg! '
Though with gods the world is cumbered, Gods unnamed, and gods unnumbered, Never god was known to be Who had not his devotee. So I dedicate to mine, Here in verse, my temple-shrine. ‘Tis not Ares, - mighty Mars, Who can give success in wars. ‘Tis not Morpheus, who doth keep Guard above us while we sleep, ‘Tis not Venus, she whose duty ‘Tis to give us love and beauty; Hail to these, and others, after Momus, gleesome god of laughter. Quirinus would guard my health, Plutus would insure me wealth; Mercury looks after trade, Hera smiles on youth and maid. All are kind, I own their worth, After Momus, god of mirth. Though Apollo, out of spite, Hides away his face of light, Though Minerva looks askance, Deigning me no smiling glance, Kings and queens may envy me While I claim the god of glee. Wisdom wearies, Love had wings – Wealth makes burdens, Pleasure stings, Glory proves a thorny crown – So all gifts the gods throw down Bring their pains and troubles after; All save Momus, god of laughter. He alone gives constant joy. Hail to Momus, happy boy.
There's a graveyard near the White House Where the Unknown Soldier lies, And the flowers there are sprinkled With the tears from mother's eyes. I stood there not so long ago With roses for the brave, And suddenly I heard a voice Speak from out the grave: 'I am the Unknown Soldier, The spirit voice began 'And I think I have the right To ask some questions man to man. 'Are my buddies taken care of? Was their victory so sweet? Is that big reward you offered Selling pencils on the street? 'Did they really win the freedom They battled to achieve? Do you still respect that Croix de Guerre Above that empty sleeve? 'Does a gold star in the window Now mean anything at all? I wonder how my old girl feels When she hears a bugle call. 'And that baby who sang Hello, Central, give me no man Can they replace her daddy With a military band? 'I wonder if the profiteers Have satisfied their greed? I wonder if a soldier's mother Ever is in need? 'I wonder if the kings, who planned it all Are really satisfied? They played their game of checkers And eleven million died. 'I am the Unknown Soldier And maybe I died in vain, But if I were alive and my country called, I'd do it all over again.
God is our father, God is lover, Go is our mother, God is life, God is our breath, God is light, God is super power, God is love. We cannot live without him, We adore him searching happiness. God is our teacher, God is preacher, He grants us to live here peacefully, God is the creator of this garden, This is Earth we say as nature shines. God is professor of many scientists, Super power he is of trillions of suns. Great-great-great-many great universes Trillions of trillions of trillions of such, He has created by his power, no one can do, Every soul is self luminous point of light, Soul is his eternal son who shines like star, Point to point we note his every word. Our God is only one eternal God, the creator, We have much love and respect for him ever, He never misses and watches us on daily, His administration is very strong and lovely, God has made universal laws are truthful sure, Many changes happen, his laws never change. Eternal God gives us guidance and we obey, He is super philosopher and infinite ocean, He is infinite ocean of knowledge. © Kumarmani Mahakul,31 August 2018. All rights reserved.
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars, Why don't you march with my true love?" "We're fresh from off the ship an' 'e's maybe give the slip, An' you'd best go look for a new love." New love! True love! Best go look for a new love, The dead they cannot rise, an' you'd better dry your eyes, An' you'd best go look for a new love. "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, What did you see o' my true love?" "I seed 'im serve the Queen in a suit o' rifle-green, An' you'd best go look for a new love." "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, Did ye see no more o' my true love?" "I seed 'im runnin' by when the shots begun to fly -- But you'd best go look for a new love." "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, Did aught take 'arm to my true love?" "I couldn't see the fight, for the smoke it lay so white -- An' you'd best go look for a new love." "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, I'll up an' tend to my true love!" "'E's lying on the dead with a bullet through 'is 'ead, An' you'd best go look for a new love." "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, I'll down an' die with my true love!" "The pit we dug'll 'ide 'im an' the twenty men beside 'im -- An' you'd best go look for a new love." "Soldier, soldier come from the wars, Do you
That evening jogging on the beach with my friends miles and miles away from home i was alone the sea was rolling and unrolling its carpet of blue and grey with what was a milk-border of foam rolling and unrolling it endlessly or so it seemed a score of seagulls on the shore flapped their wings starchwhite some picking morsels from the sand jogging on the beach that evening miles and miles away from home i ran into a dream a little challenged girl in knickers and sportshirt was carried by the waves to the shore and as she stepped on the beach i held her hand she walked with me her puny feet at every step battling with the sand her head swayed sideward with the breeze. she clapped her hands now and then and broke into an incoherent song seemingly happy walking the beach i was happy too holding her hand that evening jogging on the beach till the shout of friends behind woke me up alone in my room that night i felt disturbed sleep was long in coming... waking up at morn i learnt my TV had been on whole night!
I. I dream of you walking at night along the streams of the country of my birth, warm blooms and the nightsongs of birds opening around you as you walk. You are holding in your body the dark seed of my sleep. II. This comes after silence. Was it something I said that bound me to you, some mere promise or, worse, the fear of loneliness and death? A man lost in the woods in the dark, I stood still and said nothing. And then there rose in me, like the earth's empowering brew rising in root and branch, the words of a dream of you I did not know I had dreamed. I was a wanderer who feels the solace of his native land under his feet again and moving in his blood. I went on, blind and faithful. Where I stepped my track was there to steady me. It was no abyss that lay before me, but only the level ground. III. Sometimes our life reminds me of a forest in which there is a graceful clearing and in that opening a house, an orchard and garden, comfortable shades, and flowers red and yellow in the sun, a pattern made in the light for the light to return to. The forest is mostly dark, its ways to be made anew day after day, the dark richer than the light and more blessed, provided we stay brave enough to keep on going in. IV. How many times have I
I am really shocked to behold the pink city Blood when flows near by the green field From the ill fatted souls of their mother’s womb Tear when turns red eyes yet steeped in sorrows Serial blast such brutal act against humanity in this maddened world by this mankind fire when burns the love in men innocent peace and care when waned by evil insane should we still call them homosapiens, perhaps no unwanted rogues resourced by their own ill design society still seems wild by the doings of paranoia yet we call upon justice knocking the door of divine barbarism still plays by the laughter of wickedness slanting across the door of terrorism when befuddled as when wrought by the minds of ill born dunderheads can we not classify them in between man and killer giant still they seem to be more severe and wild by the death even more dangerous than wild and insane of the jungles the crown when worn by the heinous world of terrorism the cruelty has already infiltrated to our blood yet not the last massacre of trade centre or else where that has not yet been blotted out from our mind, still we remember that horrific moments by the death the process of annihilation when starts sun may disappear from east or west man when counts his age by the void in darkness heart still bleats and blurs by the hope against hope and we condemns this domestic terrorism by monsters God might
What a crazy world we live in, and you can say that again. For when we open up, ours mouths sometimes the words we say, just come out all wrong. A Scottish friend of my wife went to see the Doctor as her pregnancy was over due. The Doctor told her he would give it another week and then he would have to induce her. When she went, home and her husband asked how it went. What she said next must have come as a big surprise. The Doctor said if I haven’t had it in another week, he was going to seduce me. Another friend of Vera’s went to the Doctor one day. He asked, have you come on your cycle? She quickly replied, no my husband brought me in his car. Vera must be learning from them. When we were engaged, my mother gave her a large bunch of peonies. She went to work the next day and told all her friends about the flowers. She then wondered why they were curled up with laughter. She told them about the flowers OK, but her tongue couldn’t get a grip on peonies and something else came out instead. What a crazy world we live in and I wouldn’t change it in anyway. 21 February 2008
What happend next after the GOP, cherry noses that indicate popped capillarys from habitual drinking the Mayor is forced to leave. Pacing back and forth on state road yellow lines that prisons are paid by to the state using black convicts to paint. In the south when next you pass by take a look as they are all mostly black take look again as the few token whites are more prone to excape, Paul Newman had rabbit blood. Rednecks unlike me though I am, why do the wiggers that think they are black, rejected by whites, the psychological damage is - promoted by Jerry Springer and judge Judy questions arise as to why those that watch them wash the white trash in it's vast ocean of. In bread hicks, born in the south half have had sex with their brother or sister. With eyes like green lizards that now grow on the side of their heads. Crack babies rejected by those whom know they are future food for their prisons. Policing the world with such obvious flaws and why the terrorists prey on them. They have realized that they are being bred out of exsistance, southern hate filled racists these grey headed whites unable to sleep. Living in terror of what?
May … Our Brothers and Sisters Enjoy these gifts Of OUR labor, love and blood ***********IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ***********IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ***********IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ***********IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ***** ******IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII ICONIC SYMBOL of AMERICA, LAND OF THE FREE, THE BRAVE THE PROUD HARD-WORKING SHOULDERS THAT CARRY SO MANY May … Our Brothers and Sisters Enjoy these gifts Of OUR labor, love and blood FREEDOM OF SPEECH, FREEDOM OF RELIGION BASIC HUMAN DIGNITY, FULL BELLIES, CLEAN WATER READING BOOKS, AND LEADERS of their OWN CHOOSING GIFTS NOURISHED WITH THE BLOOD OF OUR MOST PRECIOUS FRUITED GOLDEN GRAINS ALL GROWN IN VESSELS OF FAITH, LOVE and RESPECT… May … Our Brothers and Sisters Enjoy these gifts Of OUR labor, love and blood (THE TOP OF THE MOUNTAIN, TENNESSEE July 6,2006)
He was a brave soldier he died young and brave And for more than six decades he lay in his grave And still at the dawning of each war memorial day At his grave site a young bugler the last post does play. Known as the Unknown Soldier one without a name Still he had a mum and a dad just the same And when he did not return home when the fighting was done They grieved at their loss and they wept for their son. The war to end all wars of all wars 'tis said But more wars are fought and we have more war dead And at the grave of the unknown soldier the last post is played And to honour the war dead another parade. Old war men do tell us young soldiers fight and die For freedom and liberty that is a lie They went to war when young they are now old and gray Some grow old not wiser some are known to say. That they were fighting for freedom and justice they believed to be true And they were quite gallant to give them their due But many deprived of their human rights in the World of today And that does seem a very sad thing for to say. With heads bowed old men showing their years in gray At the grave of the Unknown Soldier at the dawn of the day In silence do listen as a young bugler the last post
It is not Beauty I demand, A crystal brow, the moon's despair, Nor the snow's daughter, a white hand, Nor mermaid's yellow pride of hair. Tell me not of your starry eyes, Your lips that seem on roses fed, Your breasts where Cupid trembling lies, Nor sleeps for kissing of his bed. A bloomy pair of vermeil cheeks, Like Hebe's in her ruddiest hours, A breath that softer music speaks Than summer winds a-wooing flowers. These are but gauds; nay, what are lips? Coral beneath the ocean-stream, Whose brink when your adventurer sips Full oft he perisheth on them. And what are cheeks but ensigns oft That wave hot youth to fields of blood? Did Helen's breast though ne'er so soft, Do Greece or Ilium any good? Eyes can with baleful ardor burn, Poison can breath that erst perfumed, There's many a white hand holds an urn With lovers' hearts to dust consumed. For crystal brows--there's naught within, They are but empty cells for pride; He who the Syren's hair would win Is mostly strangled in the tide. Give me, instead of beauty's bust, A tender heart, a loyal mind, Which with temptation I could trust, Yet never linked with error find. One in whose gentle bosom I Could pour my secret heart of woes. Like the care-burdened honey-fly That hides his murmurs in the rose. My earthly comforter! whose love So indefeasible might be, That when my spirit won above Hers could not stay for sympathy.
There's a dear little home in Good-Children street - My heart turneth fondly to-day Where tinkle of tongues and patter of feet Make sweetest of music at play; Where the sunshine of love illumines each face And warms every heart in that old-fashioned place. For dear little children go romping about With dollies and tin tops and drums, And, my! how they frolic and scamper and shout Till bedtime too speedily comes! Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet With little folk living in Good-Children street. See, here comes an army with guns painted red, And swords, caps, and plumes of all sorts; The captain rides gaily and proudly ahead On a stick-horse that prances and snorts! Oh, legions of soldiers you're certain to meet - Nice make-believe soldiers - in Good-Children street. And yonder Odette wheels her dolly about - Poor dolly! I'm sure she is ill, For one of her blue china eyes has dropped out And her voice is asthmatic'ly shrill. Then, too, I observe she is minus her feet, Which causes much sorrow in Good-Children street. 'T is so the dear children go romping about With dollies and banners and drums, And I venture to say they are sadly put out When an end to their jubilee comes: Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet With little folk living in Good-Children street! But when falleth night over river and town, Those little folk vanish from sight, And an angel all
I My childhood's home I see again, And sadden with the view; And still, as memory crowds my brain, There's pleasure in it too. O Memory! thou midway world 'Twixt earth and paradise, Where things decayed and loved ones lost In dreamy shadows rise, And, freed from all that's earthly vile, Seem hallowed, pure, and bright, Like scenes in some enchanted isle All bathed in liquid light. As dusky mountains please the eye When twilight chases day; As bugle-tones that, passing by, In distance die away; As leaving some grand waterfall, We, lingering, list its roar-- So memory will hallow all We've known, but know no more. Near twenty years have passed away Since here I bid farewell To woods and fields, and scenes of play, And playmates loved so well. Where many were, but few remain Of old familiar things; But seeing them, to mind again The lost and absent brings. The friends I left that parting day, How changed, as time has sped! Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray, And half of all are dead. I hear the loved survivors tell How nought from death could save, Till every sound appears a knell, And every spot a grave. I range the fields with pensive tread, And pace the hollow rooms, And feel (companion of the dead) I'm living in the tombs. II But here's an object more of dread Than ought the grave contains-- A human form with reason fled, While wretched life remains. Poor Matthew! Once of
Father once again I come to you to ask yet for more blessings. Oh Lord is there no end to what I ask for. Each day new problems, new heartaches, more devistation, molestations, murders, drug use is increasing instead of decreasing. Father God people are forgetting their purpose in life, they are lost. Father many years ago, your son asked you to forgive them for they know not what they do. Father when will they know what they're doing. I have a difficult time Father looking at the news and reading of unnecessary killings, of a body found in close proximity, a body missing the head and very badly beaten. Father God what kind of a person does this. Satan is so busy and still finding a following. I'm concerned at the minds that he is still able to poison. Today Father I pray that you take total charge and stop him in his tracks, that you cause these people to take a step back and think before they act. That you cause these people who may be suffering from mental disorders, to seek help and allow the medical Doctor's to do what they are best trained for. Father we need people that can show compassion, love and care to others and not to think of ways in which to harm them. You my Father are so much more powerful than this evil being, please knock him out of the way and teach him a lesson. I know you are
The lamplit page is turned, the dream forgotten; The music changes tone, you wake, remember Deep worlds you lived before,—deep worlds hereafter Of leaf on falling leaf, music on music, Rain and sorrow and wind and dust and laughter. Helen was late and Miriam came too soon. Joseph was dead, his wife and children starving. Elaine was married and soon to have a child. You dreamed last night of fiddler-crabs with fiddles; They played a buzzing melody, and you smiled. To-morrow—what? And what of yesterday? Through soundless labyrinths of dream you pass, Through many doors to the one door of all. Soon as it's opened we shall hear a music: Or see a skeleton fall . . . We walk with you. Where is it that you lead us? We climb the muffled stairs beneath high lanterns. We descend again. We grope through darkened cells. You say: this darkness, here, will slowly kill me. It creeps and weighs upon me . . . Is full of bells. This is the thing remembered I would forget— No matter where I go, how soft I tread, This windy gesture menaces me with death. Fatigue! it says, and points its finger at me; Touches my throat and stops my breath. My fans—my jewels—the portrait of my husband— The torn certificate for my daughter's grave— These are but mortal seconds in immortal time. They brush me, fade away: like drops of water. They signify no crime. Let us retrace our steps: I have deceived
While crowds of princes your deserts proclaim, Proud in their number to enrol your name; While emperors to you commit their cause, And Anna's praises crown the vast applause; Accept, great leader, what the Muse recites, That in ambitious verse attempts your fights. Fir'd and transported with a theme so new, Ten thousand wonders opening to my view Shine forth at once; sieges and storms appear, And wars and conquests fill the' important year: Rivers of blood I see, and hills of slain, And Iliad rising out of one campaign. The haughty Gaul beheld, with towering pride, His ancient bounds enlarg'd on every side; Pyrene's lofty barriers were subdued, And in the midst of his wide empire stood; Ausonia's states, the victor to restrain, Opposed their Alps and Apennines in vain, Nor found themselves, with strength of rocks immur'd, Behind their everlasting hills secur'd; The rising Danube its long race began, And half its course through the new conquests ran; Amaz'd and anxious for her soverign's fates, Germania trembled through a hundred states; Great Leopold himself was seiz'd with fear; He gaz'd around, but saw no succour near; He gaz'd, and half-abandon'd to despair. His hopes on heaven, and confidence in pray; To Britain's queen the nations turn their eyes, On her resolves the western world relies, Confiding still, amidst its dire alarms, In Anna's conncils, and in Churchill's arms. Thrice happy Britain, from the kingdoms rent, To fit the guardian of the continent! That sees her bravest son advanc'd
To know the impossible to be impossible and yet to love the attempt; to demonstrate that beauty is eternal, yet seen only in that moment now, never to be captured, ever changing - 'evanescent' holds a little of the sound of it - this, the heroic failure that betokens love. Monet was that hero. For perhaps you may catch beauty's shadow in a photograph; even glimpse its joy, there, in the sound of song; but try to catch it - dab by dab of brush - when in the time it takes to do this, yet another leaf - there, watch it as it drops - has fallen from that distant orange-yellow-brown blur of an autumn wood - knowing as you render nature's generality or catch a church, a haystack, in a sundown glow, that all things pass - that love's heroic: and when, in irony that surely needs no underlining, blindness comes upon you, yet you go on painting, as the water-lilies blur into the water-weed, into the bridge, into the time that runs down to the river, to the sea... and in turn, Renoir, in his 'Moulin a la Galette' dance-cafe, catching the human reflection of this flow, our yearning for the perfect moment to remain, frozen, set, fresh-baked, forever caught - this is what my life has led to, this is what, surely, I deserve - under the lanterns in the trees the young girls with their cheeks of peaches, apricots, and lips like fruit that's waiting
The Banker's Fate They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care; They pursued it with forks and hope; They threatened its life with a railway-share; They charmed it with smiles and soap. And the Banker, inspired with a courage so new It was matter for general remark, Rushed madly ahead and was lost to their view In his zeal to discover the Snark. But while he was seeking with thimbles and care, A Bandersnatch swiftly drew nigh And grabbed at the Banker, who shrieked in despair, For he knew it was useless to fly. He offered large discount--he offered a cheque (Drawn "to bearer") for seven-pounds-ten: But the Bandersnatch merely extended its neck And grabbed at the Banker again. Without rest or pause--while those frumious jaws Went savagely snapping around-- He skipped and he hopped, and he floundered and flopped, Till fainting he fell to the ground. The Bandersnatch fled as the others appeared Led on by that fear-stricken yell: And the Bellman remarked "It is just as I feared!" And solemnly tolled on his bell. He was black in the face, and they scarcely could trace The least likeness to what he had been: While so great was the fright that his waistcoat turned white-- A wonderful thing to be seen! To the horror of all who were present that day, He uprose in full evening dress, And with senseless grimaces endeavoured to say What his tongue could no longer express. Down he sank in a chair--ran
A chieftain, to the Highlands bound, Cries, ``Boatman, do not tarry! And I'll give thee a silver pound To row us o'er the ferry!''-- ``Now, who be ye, would cross Lochgyle, This dark and stormy weather?'' ``O, I'm the chief of Ulva's isle, And this, Lord Ullin's daughter.-- ``And fast before her father's men Three days we've fled together, For should he find us in the glen, My blood would stain the heather. ``His horsemen hard behind us ride; Should they our steps discover, Then who will cheer my bonny bride When they have slain her lover?''-- Out spoke the hardy Highland wight,-- ``I'll go, my chief--I'm ready:-- It is not for your silver bright; But for your winsome lady: ``And by my word! the bonny bird In danger shall not tarry; So, though the waves are raging white, I'll row you o'er the ferry.''-- By this the storm grew loud apace, The water-wraith was shrieking; And in the scowl of heaven each face Grew dark as they were speaking. But still as wilder blew the wind, And as the night grew drearer, Adown the glen rode armèd men, Their trampling sounded nearer.-- ``O haste thee, haste!'' the lady cries, ``Though tempests round us gather; I'll meet the raging of the skies, But not an angry father.''-- The boat has left a stormy land, A stormy sea before her,-- When, O! too strong for human hand, The tempest gather'd o'er her. And still they row'd amidst the roar Of waters
O bring to me a red, red Rose A symbol of your love And bring to me a rainbow soft Plucked from the sky above For I will give you all I deem To grant you joy and peace A heart forever filled with care That ne`er will ever cease Then bring, O bring a Violet blue That faithful I shall be Always by your side to walk Together, you and me Carnations pink I then shall seek That in my thoughts you`ll stay In mem`ry you shall there remain Not e`er to fade away O bring, O bring an Orchid sweet That beauty shall incline Forever in my heart to dwell Through all the years to shine A sweet Delphinium I`ll wear My aspect then to grace That I may ever be with you Transcending time and space An Amaranth shall so endow My soul, to rise above All worldly passions set below To bear immortal love Then fetch me thus a Lotus flower That I may see the dawn Upon its leaf a dewdrop set My soul to be reborn O bring to me a Lily, white, To lay upon my breast To place it gentlly `cross my heart When I am laid to rest
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money …Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money …Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money ..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money .Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
O what a joyous joyous day Is that on which we come At the recess from school away, Each lad to his own home! What though the coach is crammëd full, The weather very warm; Think you a boy of us is dull, Or feels the slightest harm? The dust and sun is life and fun; The hot and sultry weather A higher zest gives every breast, Thus jumbled all together. Sometimes we laugh aloud, aloud, Sometimes huzzah, huzzah. Who is so buoyant, free, and proud As we home travellers are? But sad, but sad is every lad That day on which we come, That last last day on which away We all come from our home. The coach too full is found to be; Why is it crammëd thus? Now every one can plainly see There's not half room for us. Soon we exclaim, O shame, O shame, This hot and sultry weather, Who but our master is to blame Who packed us thus together! Now dust and sun does every one Most terribly annoy; Complaints begun, soon every one Elbows his neighbour boy. Not now the joyous laugh goes round, We shout not now huzzah; A sadder group may not be found Than we returning are.
Once there stood a castle, With towers so tall of stone, So strong and white Glowing like ivory bone In the castle lived a princess So lovely and so kind Many times she dreamt of him The prince she'd someday find When the time finally came And they stood side by side Her heart sang with beautiful feelings That time could not abide They spent all their time together Until summer came to an end He then kissed her and departed Disappearing into the wind At nights she stood and waited But never once did he return Her head was bent with sorrow Her eyes swollen from tears For she knew he would not return tomorrow And she would be alone for all her years She thought she had given him her heart For what they shared was special and true But when sorrow came he left her For he knew nothing else to do The princess had nothing left to hang onto No tiny thread of hope She had no one left to turn to And no one to help her cope She went to the places they had been Yet it was not the same without him The flowers no longer cheered her And the bright sun had become dim He hadn't meant to hurt her But the princess was lost in her own woe All she felt was betrayal In knowing he had to go But with time she came to realize He did what he had
Beautiful Ancient City of Perth, One of the grandest on the earth, With your stately mansions and streets so clean, And situated between two Inches green, Which are most magnificent to be seen The North Inch is beautiful to behold, Where the daisies and butter-cups their petals unfold, In the warm summer time of the year, While the clear silvery Tay rolls by quite near, And such a scene will your spirits cheer. The South Inch is lovely, be it said, And a splendid spot for military parade, While along the highway there are some big trees, Where the soldiers can rest or stand at ease, Whichever way their commanders please. The surrounding woodland scenery is very grand, It cannot be surpassed in fair Scotland, Especially the elegant Palace of Scone, in history renowned, Where some of Scotland's kings were crowned. And the Fair Maid of Perth's house is worthy to be seen, Which is well worth visiting by Duke, Lord, or Queen; The Fair Maid of Perth caused the battle on the North Inch 'Twixt the Clans Chattan and Kay, and neither of them did flinch, Until they were cut up inch by inch. The scenery is lovely in the month of June, When trees and flowers are in full bloom, Especially near by the Palace of Scone, Where the blackbird is heard whistling all day While near by rolls on the clear silvery Tay. Of all the cities in Scotland, beautiful Perth for me, For it is the
Their flags and their banners they are waving with joy and excitement they shout The hero has kicked the winning goal but what are they shouting about To them it should not really matter 'tis only a game of football But to them it is very important and their's is the best team of all. At least that is how they do see it their lives revolves around their team When their team win a huge boost to their egos and a loss bad for their self esteem Last week their team lost in a thriller but their loss reduced them to tears And tonight they will sing their Club song in the Local and celebrate with a few beers. They look forward to the football Season and they live for the love of the game And on their bedroom walls a poster sized photograph of their heroes and they know every player by name Why do they take football so serious they talk about it at work every day But suppose each of us have our own passions and each to their own one might say. Their flags and their banners they are waving as proudly they sing their Club song And they look forward to next weekend's game each day till then for them too long Their football team to them important their lives revolve around the game And each time their heroes are defeated the umpires for the loss they will blame.
A night of lust and love Brush your lips against my neck And so begins your siren trek I will obey your call and beck Am I your paladin? With my heart do I placate But with your eyes, you dominate Fairest maiden, single magnate Wield me with a passion Let thy heart be true and clear Let me love you without fear Let our souls entangle, dear Let this be the night Thus, the stars shine in the sky Thus, the moonstone rises high An audience to pain's demise Embrace your loyal knight Gently, graze the skin with lust You smile sweetly; vouch your trust I then advance; a gentle thrust A sigh of ecstasy Tongues engage, a lustful duel Yet, you win! Oh, how cruel... Arch for me, my precious jewel Be this destiny! Eyes hold fires, raging flames Lover's passion can't be tamed Sinful fires! I'm not ashamed Fury in our love! Harsher breathing as I drive Gods! I've never felt so alive Our souls, now, cannot be rived The stars envy above Harder, deeper, slower grinds A feeling that just blows my mind I hiss your name and say your mine The fire consumes us As we thrust and grind and kiss I call your name, everlasting mistress You call my name in utter bliss The climax of our lust! A flood of light! We both explode! We grasp each other and tightly hold! A cry of impulse thus untold! We collapse upon each other Now
God is Faithful and God is Just, God is someone you can trust. When in a trial simply be still, as God works out His Perfect Will. He is God and from the start, He’s working to prepare your heart. When you are tried, you will see, God is molding you for Eternity. The Lord our God is loving friend, and concerned about our end. Fear not which way He takes, for God above makes no mistakes. And It cannot be your concern, when God’s Will you can’t discern. If your path takes a sudden turn, He may be helping you to learn. God may take you to a place, that you need His Awesome Grace. When you do not understand, with your heart just trust His Hand. When His Hand seems to depart, you can always trust His Heart. Christ will not forsake you friend, He’s here to see you to the end. The Lord is taking us one by one, down a path to reflect His Son. And God fills us along the way, with Christ’s likeness day by day. So as we travel this path of life, we shall shine for His Son Christ. You can trust in Christ Jesus, for He indeed shall never leave us. I trust in the One who died for me, so that I could live for Eternity. My trust friend is in my Creator, Who is now my Lord and Savior. Who can know or love me more, than Jesus Christ
They say that mirrors are gateways to a parallel universe and I think this may be true because although we look alike, I am nothing like you. I wish you could be the mother that you used to be instead of being with that man, you're dirt beneath his feet The saddest part is what could have been You could have been my closest friend You could have been the greatest mom all if you had just stayed strong. You used to be so beautiful Now youre skin and bone Your voice is thick with toxins, I can hear it on the phone. You'd be so proud if you actually cared if you made the right choices and were actually there I won; t blame myself anymore And I'm done staring at the door Just waiting for you to come back changed to have your priorities rearranged. In a world where you put your children first is a world where my brother and I wouldn't have to hurt And I worry every single day that I'll lose my grip and become that way But then I know its just a thought I would never give up after how long I've fought I don't want to end up like you and I wont. I refuse. Do you even know how much I've cried? Over the hate and of the lies? My mirror, mirror sets me free. I'll never be like you but forever will be me.
I hope your happy with your life I hope your happy with your wife I hope you see what you have done I hope you see that this is all wrong I hope you realise that your not perfect I hope you see that money's not worth it I hope you realise that family comes first I hope you see that my smile was rehearsed I hope you see that your tearing me apart I hope you someday grow a heart I hope someday I will want to see you I hope someday I wont have to see you I hope you suffer, but I dont want that I hope you die, but I dont mean that I hope someday your 'love' will be real I hope someday you will 'feel' I hope you realise that money cant heal I hope someday you'll feel, what I feel I hope that before you die I hope to tell you, I wont cry I hoped you would be a good dad I hoped you wouldnt make me mad But all my hopes from before are gone just like the love you had for their mom I hope that I see you one last time I hope I get to tell you this: 'I wish I never knew you because of you....I wish I didnt exist....'
Pelagius lived at Kardanoel And taught a doctrine there How, whether you went to heaven or to hell It was your own affair. It had nothing to do with the Church, my boy, But was your own affair. No, he didn't believe In Adam and Eve He put no faith therein! His doubts began With the Fall of Man And he laughed at Original Sin. With my row-ti-tow Ti-oodly-ow He laughed at original sin. Then came the bishop of old Auxerre Germanus was his name He tore great handfuls out of his hair And he called Pelagius shame. And with his stout Episcopal staff So thoroughly whacked and banged The heretics all, both short and tall -- They rather had been hanged. Oh he whacked them hard, and he banged them long Upon each and all occasions Till they bellowed in chorus, loud and strong Their orthodox persuasions. With my row-ti-tow Ti-oodly-ow Their orthodox persuasions. Now the faith is old and the Devil bold Exceedingly bold indeed. And the masses of doubt that are floating about Would smother a mortal creed. But we that sit in a sturdy youth And still can drink strong ale Let us put it away to infallible truth That always shall prevail. And thank the Lord For the temporal sword And howling heretics too. And all good things Our Christendom brings But especially barley brew! With my row-ti-tow Ti-oodly-ow Especially barley brew!
Fate and Destiny Who can tell us what Fate and Destiny are? Who can tell us what our Fate is? Who can tell us what our Destiny is? Fate. Destiny. People say we cannot choose our Fate, but we can choose our Destiny. People say we are Fated or Destined to do/become something. Fate. Destiny. Are they different? Are they the same? People say we can choose Destiny and we are Fated to do it. People say that our Destiny is open, but our Fate is sealed. Are Fate and Destiny the same? If our Destiny has yet to be chosen but our Fate is sealed, then is not our Destiny already chosen, but unseen to us until the opportune moment? Fate. Destiny. When is the opportune moment? At what point in our life will our Fate and Destiny be revealed? Or will we realize what our Fate and Destiny are only when it is too late? Or will we pass our Fate and Destiny without knowing it? Fate. Destiny. If someone tells us what our Fate and Destiny are, will we like what we hear? Or will you strive against the path set before you?
Horrible past Hoping for a good future Tears in her eyes Running to the preacher Asking for advice in the end gaining none Shes a fearful polar bear sitting in the sun Trying to hurry and get on with life She hates the attention, but loves to tell lies Tries to make things better But they only turn out worse The role she's been playing Plenty a' times rehearsed Moot is her thinking Testy is her soul This running girl is running trying to find her fairy tale And everyone is screaming Wait look back at what you've missed You've tried to zoom thru life not even pausing for a kiss You're children are grown You're husband in a nursing home You all alone Afraid to answer the telephone Scared of love and afraid of being touched Raped and abused in her past Told she was worth to none A running girl who never stop's to see who she has hurt She never planned out her dreams Always told she was dirt Wrinkles in her face Yet she still thinks she's twenty-one Running girl stop running Your shoes cant go on You always wanted a mother A father just to hold A house she'd always stay in No bags to pack and move All she ever knew was how to run She never looked away from her path Never gazed up at the sun Her children needed her but she struggled to make it thru the day Running girl slow
AND so one day he got fed up Worrying about his bills Light, cell phones, Apartment rents Meals and what to eat Next month No money to Send to the Philippines There is no work coming And the old man he took care of Died a month ago Bad luck He is vacant He could not go to the malls There is no money left for the week And there is no work coming No one is offering to help And he worries About his telephone bills His credit card His rent His SSS His unrenewed passport His expiring visa His debts One day he goes outside It is quite cold Colder now The snow is coming He smokes his cigarette packs on the park A middle-aged American woman stares and tells her “Smoking is bad for your health You are polluting the earth” Just a little advice But his head is hot and Hot temper is what is steaming inside He is fuming mad to that middle aged American woman He is also fuming mad about Himself to be honest About it “Shit shit shit, I smoke if I want to I use my own money to kill myself F###k YOU! Mind your own American business In this free country I can smoke anytime I want! ”. He knows how to curse now In the most American way For just a year or two he was a timid Filipino he was the meek citizen of this world And he
I figured I should call you Before I started drinking again. Because you don’t answer, I started without you Since last night I had a vision In which the planes were falling, Again, a kind of religious silver rain. And you became the lucky number That slipped from the pant’s pocket Of my childhood while incest was Dug up behind the tomato vines And all the flesh and bones bathed In the hot south Florida sunlight As the trailer with the holes in the Floor was locked tightly before they Began the raid on the immigrant workers. They are advertising human sacrifice On the billboards down Military Trail, As people pass on from high-school Forgetting such detritus as their locker Numbers and first loves, The way the shadows pooled under The overgrown hollies in the early morning Beside the bus-stop as the mist rose up And the lions roared down the street. And driving with ex-relatives barking At the side of my face only to recede into The hills where the snow is quickly melting, The world turns old and further away From the life gained from the sun From which the old god walks away, Leaving his destroyed garden to his bastards sons Who perpetuate themselves through Our sick games played out between the Battlefields of eyes upon which even The fly experiences strangulation on the Dying eyelid of Cain’s unfortunate brother.
SAY not the Poet dies! Though in the dust he lies, He cannot forfeit his melodious breath, Unsphered by envious death! Life drops the voiceless myriads from its roll; Their fate he cannot share, Who, in the enchanted air Sweet with the lingering strains that Echo stole, Has left his dearer self, the music of his soul! We o'er his turf may raise Our notes of feeble praise, And carve with pious care for after eyes The stone with "Here he lies;" He for himself has built a nobler shrine, Whose walls of stately rhyme Roll back the tides of time, While o'er their gates the gleaming tablets shine That wear his name inwrought with many a golden line! Call not our Poet dead, Though on his turf we tread! Green is the wreath their brows so long have worn,-- The minstrels of the morn, Who, while the Orient burned with new-born flame, Caught that celestial fire And struck a Nation's lyre! These taught the western winds the poet's name; Theirs the first opening buds, the maiden flowers of fame! Count not our Poet dead! The stars shall watch his bed, The rose of June its fragrant life renew His blushing mound to strew, And all the tuneful throats of summer swell With trills as crystal-clear As when he wooed the ear Of the young muse that haunts each wooded dell, With songs of that "rough land" he loved so long and well! He sleeps; he cannot die! As evening's
The stork flew over a town one day, And back of each wing an infant lay; One to a rich man’s home he brought, And one he left at a labourer’s cot. The rich man said, ‘My son shall be A lordly ruler o’er land and sea.’ The labourer sighed, ‘’Tis the good God’s will That I have another mouth to fill.’ The rich man’s son grew strong and fair, And proud with the pride of a millionaire. His motto in life was, ‘Live while you may, ’ And he crowded years in a single day. He bought position and name and place, And he bought him a wife with a handsome face. He journeyed over the whole wide world, But discontent his heart lay curled Like a serpent hidden in leaves and moss, And life seemed hollow and gold was dross. He scoffed at woman, and doubted God, And died like a beast and went back to the sod. The son of the labourer tilled the soil, And thanked God daily for health and toil. He wedded for love in his youthful prime, And two lives chorded in tune and time. His wants were simple, and simple his creed, To trust God fully: it served his need, And lightened his labour, and helped him to die With a smile on his lips and a hope in his eye. When all is over and all is done, Now which of these men was the richer one?
The door is shut. She leaves the curtained office, And down the grey-walled stairs comes trembling slowly Towards the dazzling street. Her withered hand clings tightly to the railing. The long stairs rise and fall beneath her feet. Here in the brilliant sun we jostle, waiting To tear her secret out . . . We laugh, we hurry, We go our way, revolving, sinister, slow. She blinks in the sun, and then steps faintly downward. We whirl her away, we shout, we spin, we flow. Where have you been, old lady? We know your secret!— Voices jangle about her, jeers, and laughter. . . . She trembles, tries to hurry, averts her eyes. Tell us the truth, old lady! where have you been? She turns and turns, her brain grows dark with cries. Look at the old fool tremble! She's been paying,— Paying good money, too,—to talk to spirits. . . . She thinks she's heard a message from one dead! What did he tell you? Is he well and happy? Don't lie to us—we all know what he said. He said the one he murdered once still loves him; He said the wheels in wheels of time are broken; And dust and storm forgotten; and all forgiven. . . . But what you asked he wouldn't tell you, though,— Ha ha! there's one thing you will never know! That's what you get for meddling so with heaven! Where have you been, old lady? Where are you going? We know,
Heed me, feed me, I am hungry, I am red-tongued with desire; Boughs of balsam, slabs of cedar, gummy fagots of the pine, Heap them on me, let me hug them to my eager heart of fire, Roaring, soaring up to heaven as a symbol and a sign. Bring me knots of sunny maple, silver birch and tamarack; Leaping, sweeping, I will lap them with my ardent wings of flame; I will kindle them to glory, I will beat the darkness back; Streaming, gleaming, I will goad them to my glory and my fame. Bring me gnarly limbs of live-oak, aid me in my frenzied fight; Strips of iron-wood, scaly blue-gum, writhing redly in my hold; With my lunge of lurid lances, with my whips that flail the night, They will burgeon into beauty, they will foliate in gold. Let me star the dim sierras, stab with light the inland seas; Roaming wind and roaring darkness! seek no mercy at my hands; I will mock the marly heavens, lamp the purple prairies, I will flaunt my deathless banners down the far, unhouseled lands. In the vast and vaulted pine-gloom where the pillared forests frown, By the sullen, bestial rivers running where God only knows, On the starlit coral beaches when the combers thunder down, In the death-spell of the barrens, in the shudder of the snows; In a blazing belt of triumph from the palm-leaf to the pine, As a symbol of defiance lo! the wilderness I span; And my
Now what would you think, Of a party all pink, With pink iguanas, Dressed in pink pyjamas? Guests as big as an elephant, Their size quite irrelevant, As long as they've the right hue, Just remember dyes are taboo. Their skin must be real, To join in our meal. The frogs can eat slugs, And all kinds of bugs, Like the dragon millipede, Which is dangerous indeed. Would it be so shocking, When flamingoes come flocking? Do you think I'm shallow, To eat only marshmallow? We'll set you a place, If you have a pink face. 'I think, ' said a dolphin called pinky, 'This is all rather stinky. We may look quite bizarre, But colour is not who we are. Our skin is only one part, Look at others hearts, And get to know their minds, Then you'll find, That it's best to be kind. Tell everyone alive, They can just arrive, With their own sort of jive. The more different their dance, The better to enhance. Teach us something new, Follow a different avenue. What might seem strange, Can help us to change. A party for all, Would be a ball.'
Ten miles down Reedy River A pool of water lies, And all the year it mirrors The changes in the skies, And in that pool's broad bosom Is room for all the stars; Its bed of sand has drifted O'er countless rocky bars. Around the lower edges There waves a bed of reeds, Where water rats are hidden And where the wild duck breeds; And grassy slopes rise gently To ridges long and low, Where groves of wattle flourish And native bluebells grow. Beneath the granite ridges The eye may just discern Where Rocky Creek emerges From deep green banks of fern; And standing tall between them, The grassy she-oaks cool The hard, blue-tinted waters Before they reach the pool. Ten miles down Reedy River One Sunday afternoon, I rode with Mary Campbell To that broad, bright lagoon; We left our horses grazing Till shadows climbed the peak, And strolled beneath the she-oaks On the banks of Rocky Creek. Then home along the river That night we rode a race, And the moonlight lent a glory To Mary Campbell's face; And I pleaded for our future All through that moonlight ride, Until our weary horses Drew closer side by side. Ten miles from Ryan's Crossing And five miles below the peak, I built a little homestead On the banks of Rocky Creek; I cleared the land and fenced it And ploughed the rich, red loam, And my first crop was golden When I brought my Mary home. Now still down
Shall I wasting in despair Die because a woman's fair? Or make pale my cheeks with care 'Cause another's rosy are? Be she fairer than the day, Or the flow'ry meads in May, If she be not so to me, What care I how fair she be? Shall my heart be griev'd or pin'd 'Cause I see a woman kind? Or a well-disposed nature Joined with a lovely feature? Be she meeker, kinder, than Turtle dove or pelican, If she be not so to me, What care I how kind she be? Shall a woman's virtues move Me to perish for her love? Or her well-deserving known Make me quite forget mine own? Be she with that goodness blest Which may gain her name of best If she be not such to me, What care I, how good she be? 'Cause her fortune seems too high Shall I play the fool and die? Those that bear a noble mind, Where they want of riches find, Think what with them they would That without them dare to woo; And unless that mind I see, What care I how great she be? Great, or good, or kind, or fair, I will ne'er the more despair; If she love me, this believe, I will die ere she shall grieve; If she slight me when I woo, I can scorn and let her go; For if she be not for me, What care I for whom she be?
☼ This poem is in the memory of my great-grandmother who gave me nothing but good memories. If anyone was ever a hero of mine, it would’ve been her. She always had a smile and hug for me. Even in her last few weeks she always gave me the strength that I needed. Feeling the wind brush my cheek The warm sun settling on my skin Where could you be? Sometimes in the wind I hear you speak Every time my tears fill to the brim Can you hear me? Every night I count the stars Remembering everything I can about you Are you truly watching over me? Ever since you died it seems, you have so far Am I everything you’d thought I’d be? Please tell me you’re not disappointed in what you see... I’d give anything to be by your side right now. To see your simple smile To feel the soft touch of your hand And know that you love me too In your eyes I see my own A talent of yours I have Though very few memories of you I have I hold each one with pride Just as I do for your artwork All of which hang on my wall Presented for all Grandma I miss you July 4th,2009
Meera reached the proper age, That proposed her marriage. Her mother was worried, It was time, she be married. But Meera was unconcerned, Since she herself had married Krishna, her dream husband. So, she wasn’t at all worried. They sent messengers To other Rajput kings With their royal message, Proposing Meera’s marriage. None came forward To take her hand, But the King of Mewar Was willing to marry her. Kumbha Rana was his name. To marry her, he came. Meera was quite upset, And first didn’t accept. “I can’t break our tradition By accepting another one, Already when I’m married To Krishna, my husband.” Her mother cried and said, “My life I would have laid With your father in the pyre, You know, why I’m here.” “Because of you I’m alive. If today your father is alive, He would’ve had it done To our utmost satisfaction.” “What’s not possible now, After it you run how? Of what’s possible, Why can’t you now avail? ” ”Our Rajput tradition says A grown up girl, who marries Should serve her husband, And die with her husband.” Meera gave deaf ears. She cried and shed tears. They came to the conclusion That Meera had gone sick then. Doctors came to check But they went back Without giving any treatment, Not knowing her ailment. Meera’s eyes became red As she cried and cried. Her mother was upset O’er her pitiable sight. Till the last moment Poor Meera did expect Krishna would save her But He
MyNOTE: This poem consists of four tercets and two quatrains. Please, enjoy reading. Thank you so much. For someone i very sympathesize with indeed differences like night and day, is the best remedy for a happy marriage their way i have come to a crystal clear summing up: At the touch of love, we become a poet, no matter the order of love IF there be love, my zest a newest poem is created in an eye wink while winking my eye to the poetess. An impressive result of your genuine love first to the Lord above then to your dearest ones and my zest to read such mesmerizing poetry-link a jewel from the tip of thy golden quill and the deepest bottom of ink, there's endless precious beauty still with this careful created poetry i offer thee a memorable reminiscence hoping it's to your glee and a welcome acceptance.... Photography by SFC titled: "Invitation to A Cup Of Royal Albert Tea" © Sylvia Frances Chan Copyright Protected AD. Tuesday the 1st of May 2018 @ 11.33 hrs. A.M. West-European Time average weather for Spring this morn much moist and filtering sun.
The mountains and glens of Aberfoyle are beautiful to sight, Likewise the rivers and lakes are sparkling and bright; And its woods were frequented by the Lady of the Lake, And on its Lakes many a sail in her boat she did take. The scenery there will fill the tourist with joy, Because 'tis there once lived the bold Rob Roy, Who spent many happy days with his Helen there, By chasing the deer in the woods so fair. The little vale of Aberfoyle and its beautiful river Is a sight, once seen, forget it you'll never; And romantic ranges of rock on either side Form a magnificent background far and wide. And the numerous lochs there abound with trout Which can be had for the taking out, Especially from the Lochs Chon and Ard, There the angler can make a catch which will his toil reward. And between the two lochs the Glasgow Water Works are near, Which convey water of Loch Katrine in copious streams clear To the inhabitants of the Great Metropolis of the West, And for such pure water they should think themselves blest. The oak and birch woods there are beautiful to view, Also the Ochil hills which are blue in hue, Likewise the Lake of Menteith can be seen far eastward, Also Stirling Castle, which long ago the English beseiged very hard. Then away to Aberfoyle, Rob Roy's country, And gaze on the magnificent scenery. A region of rivers and mountains towering majestically Which
1. FROM thine, as then, the healing virtue goes Into our hearts-that is the Father's plan. From heart to heart it sinks, it steals, it flows, From these that know thee still infecting those. Here is my heart-from thine, Lord, fill it up, That I may offer it as the holy cup Of thy communion to my every man. 2. When thou dost send out whirlwinds on thy seas, Alternatest thy lightning with its roar, Thy night with morning, and thy clouds with stars Or, mightier force unseen in midst of these, Orderest the life in every airy pore; Guidest men's efforts, rul'st mishaps and jars,- 'Tis only for their hearts, and nothing more. 3. This, this alone thy father careth for- That men should live hearted throughout with thee- Because the simple, only life thou art, Of the very truth of living, the pure heart. For this, deep waters whelm the fruitful lea, Wars ravage, famine wastes, plague withers, nor Shall cease till men have chosen the better part. 4. But, like a virtuous medicine, self-diffused Through all men's hearts thy love shall sink and float; Till every feeling false, and thought unwise, Selfish, and seeking, shall, sternly disused, Wither, and die, and shrivel up to nought; And Christ, whom they did hang 'twixt earth and skies, Up in the inner world of men arise. 5. Make me a fellow worker with thee, Christ; Nought else befits a God-born energy; Of all that's lovely, only lives the highest, Lifing
Fondly, too curious Nature, to adorn Aurora with the blushes of the morn: Why do her rosy lips breath gums and spice; Unto the East, and sweet to Paradise? Why do her eyes open the day? her hand And voice intrance the panther, and command Incensed winds; her breasts, the tents of love, Smooth as the godded swan, or Venus' dove; Soft as the balmy dew whose every touch Is pregnant; but why those rich spoils, when such Wonder and perfection must be led A bridal captive unto Tithon's bed? Ag'd, and deformed Tithon! must thy twine Circle and blast at once what care and time Had made for wonder? must pure beauty have No other foil but ruin and a grave? So have I seen the pride of Nature's store, The orient pearl chained to the sooty Moor; So hath the diamond's bright ray been set In night, and wedded to the negro jet. See, see, how thick those showers of pearl do fall To weep her ransom, or her funeral, Whose every treasured drop, congealed, might bring, Freedom and ransom to a fettered kin, While tyrant Wealth stands by, and laughs to see How he can wed love and antipathy. Hymen, thy pine burns with adulterate fire; Thou and thy quivered boy did once conspire To mingle equal flames, and then no shine Of gold, but beauty, dressed the Paphian shrine; Roses and lilies kiss'd; the amorous vine Did with the fair and straight-limb'd elm entwine.
Lord, thou hast given me a cell, Wherein to dwell; A little house, whose humble roof Is weather proof; Under the spars of which I lie Both soft and dry; Where thou, my chamber for to ward, Hast set a guard Of harmless thoughts, to watch and keep Me, while I sleep. Low is my porch, as is my fate; Both void of state; And yet the threshold of my door Is worn by th' poor, Who thither come, and freely get Good words, or meat. Like as my parlour, so my hall And kitchen's small; A little buttery, and therein A little bin, Which keeps my little loaf of bread Unchipt, unflead; Some brittle sticks of thorn or briar Make me a fire, Close by whose living coal I sit, And glow like it. Lord, I confess too, when I dine, The pulse is thine, And all those other bits that be There placed by thee; The worts, the purslain, and the mess Of water-cress, Which of thy kindness thou hast sent; And my content Makes those, and my beloved beet, To be more sweet. 'Tis thou that crown'st my glittering hearth With guiltless mirth, And giv'st me wassail bowls to drink, Spiced to the brink. Lord, 'tis thy plenty-dropping hand That soils my land, And giv'st me, for my bushel sown, Twice ten for one; Thou mak'st my teeming hen to lay Her egg each day; Besides, my healthful ewes to bear Me twins each year; The while
To the music of Beethoven's ninth symphony Joyful, joyful, we adore Thee, God of glory, Lord of love; Hearts unfold like flowers before Thee, Praising Thee their sun above. Melt the clouds of sin and sadness; Drive the dark of doubt away; Giver of immortal gladness, Fill us with the light of day! All Thy works with joy surround Thee, Earth and heaven reflect Thy rays, Stars and angels sing around Thee, Centre of unbroken praise: Field and forest, vale and mountain, Blooming meadow, flashing sea, Chanting bird and flowing fountain, Call us to rejoice in Thee. Thou art giving and forgiving, Ever blessing, ever blest, Well-spring of the joy of living, Ocean-depth of happy rest! Thou our Father, Christ our Brother, -- All who live in love are Thine: Teach us how to love each other, Lift us to the Joy Divine. Mortals join the mighty chorus, Which the morning stars began; Father-love is reigning o'er us, Brother-love binds man to man. Ever singing march we onward, Victors in the midst of strife; Joyful music lifts us sunward In the triumph song of life.
The castle clock had tolled midnight: With mattock and with spade, And silent, by the torches' light, His corse in earth we laid. The coffin bore his name, that those Of other years might know, When earth its secrets should disclose, Whose bones were laid below. "Peace to the dead" no children sung, Slow pacing up the nave,-- No prayers were read, no knell was rung, As deep we dug his grave. We only heard the winter's wind, In many a sullen gust, As, o'er the open grave inclined, We murmured, "Dust to dust!" A moonbeam from the arch's height Streamed, as we placed the stone; The long aisles started into light, And all the windows shone. We thought we saw the banners then, That shook along the walls, Whilst the sad shades of mailèd men Were gazing on the stalls. 'Tis gone! again on tombs defaced Sits darkness more profound; And only by the torch we traced The shadows on the ground. And now the chilling, freezing air Without blew long and loud; Upon our knees we breathed one prayer, Where he slept in his shroud. We laid the broken marble floor,-- No name, no trace appears,-- And when we closed the sounding door, We thought of him with tears.
After a Richter Concert. In the long, sad time, when the sky was grey, And the keen blast blew through the city drear, When delight had fled from the night and the day, My chill heart whispered, ' June will be here! ' June with its roses a-sway in the sun, Its glory of green on mead and tree.' Lo, now the sweet June-tide is nearly done, June-tide, and never a joy for me Is it so much of the gods that I pray? Sure craved man never so slight a boon! To be glad and glad in my heart one day- One perfect day of the perfect June. Sweet sounds to-night rose up, wave upon wave; Sweet dreams were afloat in the balmy air. This is the boon of the gods that I crave- To be glad, as the music and night were fair. For once, for one fleeting hour, to hold The fair shape the music that rose and fell Revealed and concealed like a veiling fold; To catch for an instant the sweet June spell. For once, for one hour, to catch and keep The sweet June secret that mocks my heart; Now lurking calm, like a thing asleep, Now hither and thither with start and dart. Then the sick, slow grief of the weary years, The slow, sick grief and the sudden pain; The long days of labour, the nights of tears- No more these things would I hold in vain. I would hold my life
I. Thus long my grief has kept me dumb: Sure there's a lethargy in mighty woe, Tears stand congealed, and cannot flow; And the sad soul retires into her inmost room: Tears, for a stroke foreseen, afford relief; But, unprovided for a sudden blow, Like Niobe, we marble grow, And petrify with grief. Our British heaven was all serene, No threatening cloud was nigh, Not the least wrinkle to deform the sky; We lived as unconcerned and happily As the first age in nature's golden scene; Supine amidst our flowing store, We slept securely, and we dreamt of more; When suddenly the thunder-clap was heard, It took us, unprepared, and out of guard, Already lost before we feared. The amazing news of Charles at once were spread, At once the general voice declared, “Our gracious prince was dead.” No sickness known before, no slow disease, To soften grief by just degrees; But, like a hurricane on Indian seas, The tempest rose; An unexpected burst of woes. With scarce a breathing space betwixt, This now becalmed, and perishing the next. As if great Atlas from his height Should sink beneath his heavenly weight, And, with a mighty flaw, the flaming wall, As once it shall, Should gape immense, and, rushing down, o'erwhelm this nether ball; So swift and so surprising was our fear: Our Atlas fell indeed; but Hercules was near. II. His pious brother, sure the best Who ever bore that name, Was newly risen from his rest, And, with
As the sun sinks upon the horizon, As the dark night creeps in, The dead dance. On the streets they roam, Silent, Alone. Everybody dances, The saints and the sinners, Everybody dances, To the sound of the rhythm, Everybody dances, The dance of the dead. The dance of the dead goes on, And on, Never stops, Never slows, Time does not matter to the dead. Everybody dances, The poor and the rich, Everybody dances, To the cries to the babies, Everybody dances, The dance of the dead. As your time goes up, The dead dance into your room, Filled with silent movements, They twirl with grace, And style And ease. They reach out their hands, And you take it, And join the dance of the dead. Everybody dance, The young and the old, Everybody dance, The music is playing, Everybody dance, To the dance of the dead. C’mon, Everybody dance, Soldiers and lovers, Oh, Everybody dance, To sound they cry, So, Everybody dance, To the dance of the dead, The dance of the dead. Oh, Everybody dances, Because the dance never stops. 6/05/06
I leave for thee, beloved one, The home and friends of youth, Trusting my hopes, my happiness, Unto thy love and truth; I leave for thee my girlhood's joys, Its sunny, careless mirth, To bear henceforth my share amid The many cares of earth. And yet, no wild regret I give To all that now I leave, The golden dreams, the flow'ry wreaths That I no more may weave; The future that before me lies A dark and unknown sea -- Whate'er may be its storms or shoals, I brave them all with thee! I will not tell thee now of love Whose life, ere this, thou'st guessed, And which, like sacred secret, long Was treasured in my breast; Enough that if thy lot be calm, Or storms should o'er it sweep, Thou'lt learn that it is woman's love, Unchanging, pure and deep. If this life's sunshine gild thy lot, Bestowing wealth and pride, Its light enjoying, I shall stand, Rejoicing, at thy side; But, oh! if thou should'st prove the griefs That blight thy fellow-men, 'Twill be my highest, dearest right, To be, love, with thee then. And thou, wilt thou not promise me Thy heart will never change, That tones and looks, so loving now, Will ne'er grow stern and strange? That thou'lt be kind, whatever faults Or failings may be mine, And bear with them in patient love, As I will bear with thine?
Butterflies flitter about, some fly by rapidly, and others seem to just float past your eye. I often wonder at their beauty of flight and feel quite envious that I cannot do the same. Life I suppose can be a little like that; sometimes events go by rapidly, while others, they seem to meander up and down flying slowly through our minds. It is the rapidly moving ones that irritate me; most events come and go so quickly. You look forward to something for months and when it eventually arrives it is over in a tick of the clock. Leaves you sometimes to wonder why it happened and why you looked forward to it so much. The slower events in time, which are really the ones we experience everyday can be so beautiful and thought provoking, that they last for a longer period of time. Then we have the earth shattering events that come like the butterfly you have never seen in your garden before that grabs your interest. These can grip you so strongly, that eventually it dawns on you that this is something worthwhile pursuing. The idea grows and grows, before you know it, you are on a different path in life, which is hopefully leading you to a better one. This can be very exciting and fulfilling. It is the same as when all those years ago, a lady showed my wife and I a paradise flycatcher; we have been bird watching ever since. It is amazing
Let us begin and carry up this corpse, Singing together. Leave we the common crofts, the vulgar thorpes Each in its tether Sleeping safe on the bosom of the plain, Cared-for till cock-crow: Look out if yonder be not day again Rimming the rock-row! That's the appropriate country; there, man's thought, Rarer, intenser, Self-gathered for an outbreak, as it ought, Chafes in the censer. Leave we the unlettered plain its herd and crop; Seek we sepulture On a tall mountain, citied to the top, Crowded with culture! All the peaks soar, but one the rest excels; Clouds overcome it; No! yonder sparkle is the citadel's Circling its summit. Thither our path lies; wind we up the heights: Wait ye the warning? Our low life was the level's and the night's; He's for the morning. Step to a tune, square chests, erect each head, 'Ware the beholders! This is our master, famous, calm and dead, Borne on our shoulders. Sleep, crop and herd! sleep, darkling thorpe and croft, Safe from the weather! He, whom we convoy to his grave aloft, Singing together, He was a man born with thy face and throat, Lyric Apollo! Long he lived nameless: how should spring take note Winter would follow? Till lo, the little touch, and youth was gone! Cramped and diminished, Moaned he, "New measures, other feet anon! My dance is finished"? No, that's the world's way: (keep the mountain-side, Make for the city!) He knew the signal, and stepped on with pride Over
I feel like a protesting mood today. Consecutive Governments all over the world are eroding our rights away one by one. We must not do this and we must not do that. A good case in point is the smoking ban, well that has just got way out of hand. I agree no smoking in places where we eat, but now the idiots wants to ban you smoking in your own car! Now that is stretching it a bit too far. It makes you wonder what part of cloud cuckoo land their ideas come from. Now I remember and it’s not that long ago, doctors encouraged you to smoke to calm your nerves. Now the same doctors are saying it is bad for you. However, it is all right for a group of them to plant a dirty bomb. Am I going mad or is there a double standard here? On the other hand, is it that they don’t have enough patients that they have to go out and create a few? Then there are the Hospitals and doctors saying we will refuse to treat anyone that smokes. Hang on a minute, you will treat an alcoholic, which is self-infliction, a drug addict another self-infliction. Come on, a lot of you told us to smoke in the first place. Then the other day another doctor was saying that smoking actually help keep the airway clear. Am I missing something here? Now I wonder what the Government would do if we
King Arthur lives in merry Carleile, And seemely is to see; And there with him queene Guenever, That bride soe bright of blee. And there with him queene Guenever, That bride so bright in bowre: And all his barons about him stoode, That were both stiffe and stowre. The king a royale Christmasse kept, With mirth and princelye cheare; To him repaired many a knighte, That came both farre and neare. And when they were to dinner sette, And cups went freely round; Before them came a faire damsèlle, And knelt upon the ground. A boone, a boone, O kinge Arthùre, I beg a boone of thee; Avenge me of a carlish knighte, Who hath shent my love and me. At Tearne-Wadling his castle stands, Near to that lake so fair, And proudlye rise the battlements, And streamers deck the air. Noe gentle knighte, nor ladye gay, May pass that castle-walle: But from that foule discurteous knighte, Mishappe will them befalle. Hee's twyce the size of common men, Wi' thewes, and sinewes stronge, And on his backe he bears a clubbe, That is both thicke and longe. This grimme baròne 'twas our harde happe, But yester morne to see; When to his bowre he bare my love, And sore misused mee. And when I told him, king Arthùre As lyttle shold him spare; Goe tell, sayd hee, that cuckold kinge, To meete mee if he dare. Upp then sterted king Arthùre, And sware by hille and dale, He ne'er wolde
THE CHANCELLOR mused as he nibbled his pen (Sure no Minister ever looked wiser), And said, “I can summon a million of men To fight for their country and Kaiser; “While that shallow charlatan ruling o’er France, Who deems himself deeper than Merlin, Thinks he and his soldiers have only to dance To the tune of the Can-can to Berlin. “But as soon as he gets to the bank of the Rhine, He’ll be met by the great German army.” Then the Chancellor laughed, and he said, “I will dine, For I see nothing much to alarm me.” Yet still as he went out he paused by the door (For his mind was in truth heavy laden), And he saw a stout fellow, equipped for the war, Embracing a fair-haired young maiden. “Ho! ho!” said the Chancellor, “this will not do, For Mars to be toying with Venus, When these Frenchmen are coming—a rascally crew!— And the Rhine only flowing between us.” So the wary old fox, just in order to hear, Strode one or two huge paces nearer; And he heard the youth say, “More than life art thou dear; But, O loved one, the Fatherland’s dearer.” Then the maid dried her tears and looked up in his eyes, And she said, “Thou of loving art worthy: When all are in danger no brave man e’er flies, And thy love should spur on—not deter thee.” The Chancellor took a cigar, which he lit, And he muttered, “Here ’s naught
It comes upon me, time and time again. It's the grand finally my friend. A Wicked poker game with all decadent men. All holding out till the last minute. Oh who's gonna win? Is it another bluff? Fiction or fantasy. Oh baby rolling with the ecstasy. Trial by the nights of pitch black sky. Some say suicide, Some say you never wanted to die. Only god truly knows' why. Denial and prejudice at the same time. The judge and jury in a flurry attack. The poor man had no time to react. 26 stab wounds creates a bloody mess. You try to clean it up to your best, but with out success. Vengeance for life. No one will come see you. Not this time you've done yourself in. Let the punishment fit the crime. Passionate or not, a plea of temporary insanity with not an ounce dignity. Cigarettes burns to the eye. Pissing on the body as it burns and getting pleasure out of it. A socially path, a sick son of a b*tch in which their no cure for. Your keeping score after each murder. Some would call you a serial killer. I call you a soul stealer.
Little Ballads Of Timely Warning; II: On Malicious Cruelty To Harmless Creatures The cruelty of P. L. Brown— (He had ten toes as good as mine) Was known to every one in town, And, if he never harmed a noun, He loved to make verbs shriek and whine. The 'To be' family’s just complaints— (Brown had ten toes as good as mine) Made Brown cast off the last restraints: He smashed the 'Is nots' into 'Ain’ts' And kicked both mood and tense supine. Infinitives were Brown’s dislike— (Brown, as I said, had ten good toes) And he would pinch and shake and strike Infinitives, or, with a pike, Prod them and then laugh at their woes. At length this Brown more cruel grew— (Ten toes, all good ones, then had Brown) And to his woodshed door he drew A young infinitive and threw The poor, meek creature roughly down, And while the poor thing weakly flopped, Brown (ten good toes he had, the brute!) Got out his chopping block and dropped The martyr on it and then propped His victim firmly with his boot. He raised his axe! He brandished it! (Ye gods of grammar, interpose!) He brought it down full force all fit The poor infinitive to split— * (Brown after that had but six toes! Warning Infinitives, by this we see. Should not he split too recklessly.
A Mermaid’s not a human thing, An’ courtin’ such is folly; Of flesh an’ blood I’d rather sing, What ain’t so melancholy. Oh, Berta! Loo! Jaunita! Sue! Here’s good luck to me and you— Sing rally! ri-a-rally! The seas is deep; the seas is wide; But this I’ll prove whate’er betide, I’m bully in the alley! I’m bull-ee in our al-lee! The Hooghli gal’er face is brown; The Hilo gal is lazy; The gal that lives by ’Obart town She’d drive a dead man crazy; Come, wet your lip, and let it slip! The Gretna Green’s a tidy ship— Sing rally! The seas is deep; the seas is blue; But ’ere’s good ’ealth to me and you, Ho, rally! The Lord may drop us off our pins To feed ’is bloomin’ fishes; But Lord forgive us for our sins— Our sins is most delicious! Come, drink it up and fill yer cup! The world it owes us bite and sup, And Mimi, Ju-Ju, Sally; The seas is long; the winds is strong; The best of men they will go wrong— Hi, rally! ri-a-rally! The Bowery gal she knows ’er know; The Frisco gal is silly; The Hayti gal ain’t white as snow— They’re whiter down in Chili. Now what’s the use to shun the booze? They’ll flop your bones among the ooze Sou’-west-by-Sou’ the galley. The seas is green; the seas is cold; The best of men they must grow old— Sing rally! ri-a-rally! All round the world where’er I
He. Never until this night have I been stirred. The elaborate starlight throws a reflection On the dark stream, Till all the eddies gleam; And thereupon there comes that scream From terrified, invisible beast or bird: Image of poignant recollection. She. An image of my heart that is smitten through Out of all likelihood, or reason, And when at last, Youth's bitterness being past, I had thought that all my days were cast Amid most lovely places; smitten as though It had not learned its lesson. He. Why have you laid your hands upon my eyes? What can have suddenly alarmed you Whereon 'twere best My eyes should never rest? What is there but the slowly fading west, The river imaging the flashing skies, All that to this moment charmed you? She. A Sweetheart from another life floats there As though she had been forced to linger From vague distress Or arrogant loveliness, Merely to loosen out a tress Among the starry eddies of her hair Upon the paleness of a finger. He. But why should you grow suddenly afraid And start -- I at your shoulder -- Imagining That any night could bring An image up, or anything Even to eyes that beauty had driven mad, But images to make me fonder? She. Now She has thrown her arms above her head; Whether she threw them up to flout me, Or but to find, Now that no fingers bind, That her hair streams upon the wind, I do not
I must confess that this is my first time seeing the leaves change in fall. I laid on my back under a rather large tree today, and what a marvel it was. He laid next to me, yet was overly consumed by the fact that he might get dirt in his eye. For me, it was a much greater feeling. I stared in amazement at the oranges leaves and contrasting blue sky. It's funny how a moment like that could make me realize how wrong we are for each other. While I was busy enjoying the feeling of the cool ground that was my matress and staring up at the leaves until they lost their definition and blurred together, he only seemed to wiggle and squirm, as if he was annoyed or embarassed of committing such a childish act. Today, I learned the reason why he tells me that I'm immature. It's because I am an artist, I see beauty in everything. I am a poet who reads more than just words. I find joy in taking the time to smell the roses - to be amused by the little things. And he has only found a path by following the others.
Oft an adults with childish mentality do marriage With an aim to travel in life’s joyful carriage. On fate’s tortuous road of uncertainty With an aim to sing life’s joyous ditty The coach drawn by colts of happiness cum sorrow. Rushes on a road winding up to morrow Then a wanton fantasy running amok Mates with a desire running wild And in due course produces a sacrificial child. Then, adult children with unfulfilled goals, Imprison poor newborns in their ambition’s gaol. They prod tiny tots with a goad of desires Till their limbs gets tired and hearts emits fire. The fools trying to fulfill goals in a vicarious way Unknowingly extinguish the newborn rays. The child born in an accident Complains in a front of providence: In muffled prayers or screams To rescue his brutally raped dreams. Thus their desire abuses new born child Who is yet to shed innocence’s guild. Eventually the carriage falls in a dolorous dell, And the progenies that begets in the hell, fight like Cain and Abel. Dr Hitesh C Sheth 02/06/2009
Happiness Is a clean bill of health from the doctor, And the kids shouldn't move back home for more than a year, And not being audited, overdrawn, in Wilkes-Barre, in a lawsuit or in traction. Happiness Is falling asleep without Valium, And having two breasts to put in my brassiere, And not (yet) needing to get my blood pressure lowered, my eyelids raised or a second opinion. And on Saturday nights When my husband and I have rented Something with Fred Astaire for the VCR, And we're sitting around in our robes discussing, The state of the world, back exercises, our Keoghs, And whether to fix the transmission or buy a new car, And we're eating a pint of rum-raisin ice cream on the grounds that Tomorrow we're starting a diet of fish, fruit and grain, And my dad's in Miami dating a very nice widow, And no one we love is in serious trouble or pain, And our bringing-up-baby days are far behind us, But our senior-citizen days have not begun, It's not what I called happiness When I was twenty-one, But it's turning out to be What happiness is.
I walk among the rows of bowed heads-- the children are sleeping through fourth grade so as to be ready for what is ahead, the monumental boredom of junior high and the rush forward tearing their wings loose and turning their eyes forever inward. These are the children of Flint, their fathers work at the spark plug factory or truck bottled water in 5 gallon sea-blue jugs to the widows of the suburbs. You can see already how their backs have thickened, how their small hands, soiled by pig iron, leap and stutter even in dreams. I would like to sit down among them and read slowly from The Book of Job until the windows pale and the teacher rises out of a milky sea of industrial scum, her gowns streaming with light, her foolish words transformed into song, I would like to arm each one with a quiver of arrows so that they might rush like wind there where no battle rages shouting among the trumpets, Hal Ha! How dear the gift of laughter in the face of the 8 hour day, the cold winter mornings without coffee and oranges, the long lines of mothers in old coats waiting silently where the gates have closed. Ten years ago I went among these same children, just born, in the bright ward of the Sacred Heart and leaned down to hear their breaths delivered that day, burning with joy. There was such wonder in their sleep, such purpose in their eyes
It is a murder most foul And most unkindest cut of all. O love don’t slaughter me, Even before I see the first ray A ray of hope and life gay. Killed even before I come to senses, Womb to grave deep by those bloody hands, Who brought me here, Last laugh on my slaughter, For world’ temptations it is all theater. I am not a wild goose, hunted so ruthlessly. Communist, socialist, secularist, Left and right, Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and cross, All united in this dross. No quota of caste, creed and religion, All secular in this social justice, A great national unity in this slaughter. A creation of love and fragrance, But reserved hate for this hidden star. Thoughts vicious, process brutal, To pick one and kill one, Favorite for social liberation, Pretend to opt the best, But truly it is the worst. A curse to our progress, For jealous souls it is all theater, Again parody of love, Cheek to cheek and breast to breast, Two pigeons in one nest. Again theater of absurd, And again I am a shuttle cock, At the mercy of love dogs, Life lost in silent cries, O God! Save Oh! Save. From: DR. YOGESH SHARMA
Decided are my ways; Altered are my days, for I know where to move; For I know the way to reach. My destination is too far to being seen. With a map set in my mind, With a slow speed I will start, the engine of my car. Well I am the lone driver, I am the lone traveller; Gear is set. Mind is set right. Mirror is well set up, So that I get the three dimensional view. Slowly I accelerated the speed, Now I know the ABC of life, I know when to apply break, I know when to accelerate the speed I know when to use clutch. Here I am set to go! I have to keep on moving, On the same speed, With my eyes and ears open, My mind should work in coordination with, My eyes, ears and hands. My wonder car started, Moving ahead all way. It will wait for none, Till my brain is in gear. I will not turn back. In between I will put a break To give a pause to my brain too. My wonder car started Its moving towards a new way. Through the path that seemed to be rough and smooth. Today, Nothing matters me much. I have to move ahead through unknown path. With a steering controlled by my hand and mind. I will move ahead with thrill and reach my destination. ©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014 © 2014. Geetha Jayakumar.
A new day to face many eyes, Such inquisitive look never lies, The brain increases in sight, Cracking almost to its size, To address these minds, To let them believe their not blinds, To the wits I transfer in their kinds. I lost my goal and find no more, To reason is not a solution, I found no trace to turn my track, They carry me from the start, Out form the destiny I plot, I struggle myself to stood still, Clang my feet to where I stood. A force to full me down seemed increased. The glaring sight of co- teachers move, Commanding them to pull me hard, Shocked shaken me to the truth, A snakes emerged even in the town, Where concrete pathways ever exist. The more I wounded the more I was braver, The scenario turned into a showdown, A learner flashed a glaring knife, My womb was the target of sharpness, I closed my eyes to subdue to God, Pray a little and asked salvation, to Him I submit everything. As the flying sharpness come near, I saw the darkness overtook me, I shouted unintimidating voice, To melt the fire of burning desire, Those co teachers dropped their lids, As the knife dropped, So did their joy of seeing me free, A lesson I ponder before And I ponder more and more, to water me into the field of A good teacher to live forever.
Love is God and God is love "Love is God and God is love" all may say I found no name that actually professed these words to lay I bow my head to preachers who really follow the spirit And guide the masses to bow their head and touch the feet It has become customary and now a show business Visit temple, mosque or church in order to confess It is good on the part of human being to obey And learn the teachings by heart and pray Many may be seriously praying for universal happiness So many may be secretly donating for the serious cases Yet the genuine concern occupies the religion centers As they have to rush to the needy poor to cater All said and not done in true essence We swear by God but speak lies in his presence We only object blasphemy but in real life act contrary General awareness with staunch followers is necessary I weep with tears when see the Christ on cross What a feeling in mind with complete remorse Why did we commit cruelty when He was our messiah? I feel great when hear churches bell ring or hear the name of Allah I may be illiterate in literally terms It will be of no use to look at holy book to turn The writing may cut little in my mind Yet I know it is great message from him to find What has he not done for mankind as whole?
I thought it would rain today sky hanging low & threatening but like a bully w/o balls it merely blustered: making idle threats sky crying, 'Wolf! ' an empty politician's promise... I was hoping for cold & wet something wintry & seasonal at least but had to settle for a monotonous grey that covers Winter's sky a cold blanket rarely broken by clear, piercing blue Light so clean it hurts to see naked trees Naked truth... What are we to do when seasons run together a blur so you have to check a calender just to know what the season is... weather as metaphor for mediocrity. Tabloidized information corrupted & fed by special interests (the mysterious 'they') when it is we who have abdicated, given our power to the box surrendered to pushers of mediocrity & fear who deliver their products on the evening news brought to you by the latest disease... Even weathermen try: making any gust of wind a matter of life & death: disaster specials, tabloid storified glorified fear: 'Watch tornadoes from the safety of your very own boudoir! ! ! ' & all so we don't really have to feel anything thats remotely honest or real... Where is Noah, now? Who's building an ark? Because if that sameness, blandness & false sense of security is ever replaced w/ winter's piercing light we can go inside & reflect on who we really are on who we want to be... So when fear mongers & pushers of mediocrity
My family drove off mere hours ago to visit Grandma on her birthday, thus I am home and quite all alone. First thing I undertook post-farewell was doff my duds down to the undies, hotter, t'was, than Homer Simpson's hell. Ne'er may I dance to song as I please - - tho' the spirit may often move me, for my kin fling up arms, shriek and tease. My feet like to dance, so, dance I did, with the family van well out of view. Sometimes you must blindly trust your id! I danced like a fiend, singing along, as graceful as Elaine on 'Seinfeld', free as a bird both in movement and song... Exhausted at last, I realized - - a mite too late that in my half- sorrowful/ all-ecstatic state I'd undressed while still in front of the house... SOB (to say the least, eh?) I fell dumbly to my knees, clothes GONE from the grass! Finding the door securely locked, I spontaneously combusted into ash h h.......... Not really... I'm hiding beneath the deck until their return in days three using heretofore unknown mental powers to post this poem on PH with glee! So what - - I'm hungry.
War As war is fought it takes charge, And events spin out of control. The madness of men can alter the soil Which nourishes the roots of their soul. Many things will forever change, Far more then wished to be. As the wrath of war starts to destroy, Those things we fight to keep free. War is the greatest plague of man, Religion, state, and sanity. Any scourge is more preferred, Than the one which disables humanity. When war breaks out, boundaries change And all who die are a token, Of the rage that must run it's course, Before words of peace are spoken. TROOP SHIP Our ship had sailed before the dawn Surrounded by the thickest of fog, Still ignorant of our destination Or what was written in the captain's log. It didn't take long for me to see Our cruise was not for fun; An experience of a lifetime With nowhere for us to run. Twenty knots per hour we cruised As the white caps passed us by; Ten thousand young Americans Off to Europe to die. A sailor told us not to worry; Someday we'd get our mail. Uncle Sam would make sure No matter how far we sail. Thirty feet deep I tried to sleep Beneath our ship's waterline, Just the place for claustrophobia To enter into my mind. My favorite vest was my May West Which I wore all the time Just in case of German U-boats Or an underwater mine. Thirty-three days we were
Your Laughter Original Poem by Pablo Neruda Hindi translation by Rajnish Manga हँसी तुम्हारी मूल कविता: पेब्लो नेरुदा हिंदी अनुवाद: रजनीश मंगा यदि चाहो तुम, मुझसे मेरा दानापानी ले लो ले लो मुझसे पवन झकोरे किंतु न ले लेना हरगिज़ मुझसे अपनी हँसी सलोनी. यह गुलाब न मुझसे छीनो, कंदराओं में उगने वाला नीला फूल जो तोड़ा तुमने, इस कोशिश में कुछ जल के छींटे अकस्मात् हर्षोन्माद में मुझे भिगो कर चले गये हैं, तभी अचानक तुम्हारे तन से लहर उठी थी रजत कणों की.. संघर्षों से व्यथित हुआ लौट आया हूँ बोझिल नयन लिये अपने मैं यूँ ही इक टक तकते रहने से धरती की बदलावहीनता, किंतु जब जब हँसीं तुम्हारी मंडराती है नभ की ओर मुझे ढूँढने को जाती है और खुल जाते हैं मेरे वास्ते जीवन के अनगिनत रास्ते. प्रिये सुनो, अंधकार हो सघन जिस घड़ी हँसी तुम्हारी खिल उठती है, और यदि अचानक तुम देखो जो मेरे रक्त से सनी हुई बजरी सड़क पर, हँसो, क्योंकि यह हँसी तुम्हारी मेरे हाथों में दिखेगी ऐसे नई खड़ग की चमक हो जैसे. पतझड़ में सागर से आगे, हँसी तुम्हारी ऊपर जाकर फ़ेनिल झरने सी गिरती है, और वसंत के मौसम में, प्रिय, मुझे तुम्हारी हँसी चाहिए फूल सरीखी इंतज़ार था जिसका मुझको, एक नीला फूल, एक गुलाब उस देश का जिसमें मैं गुंजायमान हूँ. हँसो रात पर, और दिवस पर, और चाँद पर, हँसो हँसो उन टेढ़े मेढ़े टापू के गलियारों पर, हँसो हँसो बेढंगे से इस लड़के पर, जो है केवल तुम्हें चाहता, लेकिन जब खोलूं मैं
SENUALITY AND LUST esspeecee …09.06.09 Extramarital affair Tipsy; I fall-in Often and Effortlessly, compulsively. It’s not lust To gratify But douse, drench In beguiling Sensuality. A tankard-full Golden sun ray Orangish archisap Sip the sparkle n’sip Inebriate become O Orangish Sensuality. Smear Sensuality A fragranced jelly An intimate togetherness With fiancée Sing: Hulla huh u laa hulla. Take orangey transfusion Of Sensuality All cells are bathed Melts down lust Tranquility imbues me. Lust gyrates, explodes Repressed gratification surfaces, Make me Civilized libidinist. Sexitation slumber Under blanket of Serene Sensuality Like doped sloth. I sip the tankard Frothy, bubbly Lips in commune with Softy smoothie Sensuality. Lust forgive me Fear your Grotesque laughter Boozer of soma. Lust is concocted Groomed, vamped Nudity Product of civilization. Sensuality is Effortless, born-nascent, innate Nudity Pre-civilization gleam galore. O Sensuality My placid play pal Stay even short With me Endlessly I relish It’s ‘After-Taste’. Orangey golden Sensuality Drink you compulsively I’m, for ever new Extramarital affair Die hard I’m of. Copyright reserved by the Author
BOOK I A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but still will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing A flowery band to bind us to the earth, Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth Of noble natures, of the gloomy days, Of all the unhealthy and o'er-darkened ways Made for our searching: yes, in spite of all, Some shape of beauty moves away the pall From our dark spirits. Such the sun, the moon, Trees old and young, sprouting a shady boon For simple sheep; and such are daffodils With the green world they live in; and clear rills That for themselves a cooling covert make 'Gainst the hot season; the mid forest brake, Rich with a sprinkling of fair musk-rose blooms: And such too is the grandeur of the dooms We have imagined for the mighty dead; All lovely tales that we have heard or read: An endless fountain of immortal drink, Pouring unto us from the heaven's brink. Nor do we merely feel these essences For one short hour; no, even as the trees That whisper round a temple become soon Dear as the temple's self, so does the moon, The passion poesy, glories infinite, Haunt us till they become a cheering light Unto our souls, and bound to us so fast, That, whether there be shine, or
Old Noah he had an ostrich farm and fowls on the largest scale, He ate his egg with a ladle in a egg-cup big as a pail, And the soup he took was Elephant Soup and fish he took was Whale, But they all were small to the cellar he took when he set out to sail, And Noah he often said to his wife when he sat down to dine, "I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine." The cataract of the cliff of heaven fell blinding off the brink As if it would wash the stars away as suds go down a sink, The seven heavens came roaring down for the throats of hell to drink, And Noah he cocked his eye and said, "It looks like rain, I think, The water has drowned the Matterhorn as deep as a Mendip mine, But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine." But Noah he sinned, and we have sinned; on tipsy feet we trod, Till a great big black teetotaller was sent to us for a rod, And you can't get wine at a P.S.A., or chapel, or Eisteddfod, For the Curse of Water has come again because of the wrath of God, And water is on the Bishop's board and the Higher Thinker's shrine, But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine.
Speak out my dear Why hath thou in a state of depression? Speak out my dear I stand here waiting for thy confession Depression is not a sign of weakness Neither an indication of madness I stand here not to judge you Simply to take heed to what is true Depression is not a crime It only calls for love through time Depression is a silent voice Rooted deep inside to stop a crying noise Speak out my dear Why hath thou in a state of depression? Speak out my dear I stand here waiting for thy confession What have you lost along the way? Retrace your steps, I say Who have you lost? Take heart, everything in life must rust What is it you want? Grant me a permit in your hunt But first of all let me be blunt Condemn yourself not for your mistakes That is what it takes for you to be awake Life is meant to be messy and greasy The road is not meant to be easy Speak out my dear Why hath thou in a state of depression? Speak out my dear I stand here as a friend My compassionate heart is yours to lend Merely to give you inspiration And redeem you of your depression Thus, speak out my dear! Why hath thou in a state of depression? Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi www.sylviachidi.com
I’m ever so numb So why cant you see That not only do I not but now I hate my family You took what made me smile Now I cry all the time not just once and a while Know I am numb and can not feel Please tell me what is the deal You have to learn to trust the girl that you raised Just let us be friends and you will be amazed Amazed to see the smile brake away that frozen frown its not like ill be a stripper in town I use to tell you everything and anything Now I just wait for the phone to ring We use to be so close not to mention But now at dinner you can just feel the tension Daddy just understand that with out you I can live You have given all the help you can give You have taken my light and burned it out You have taken my heart and made it cold You have taken my sister and hurt me so I cant talk to you with out being judged But now I can see that you decision can not be budged If I could I would walk till my feet were nothing but a blister Dad.. I don’t need a therapist I need my big sister! !
The old man had been channeling Albert for days He had managed to make contact with him while taking his morning constitution in the back behind his custom built plywood paneled trailer His wife's (actually his cousin's) garden was doing extremely well The sweet corn was high and the beans were really coming in... The old guy had been unable to sleep for weeks up till then This one burning question kept eating at his psychic and the old man thought only an Einstein would know If when in a person's life there is a spiritual void Will Evil then be all which can fill his heart? Or was there power enough in prayer to save him? The answer came as a shocker.... When Albert who had taken the liberty of enlisting some help from six of the twelve Apostles... Spoke to him late last night....The old man was taking a piss on the rhubarb and collard greens He claims it keeps the varmints from eating them greens 'Old man' the voices of the combined seven called.... Bartholomew acting as spokesperson for the group.... Said.... 'Two protons stuck together have less mass than two single separate protons' Perplexed the old guy scratched his head with his free hand and asked, 'What does this mean to me? To which there was only the sound of dead silence and that of his stream hitting the broad leaf of the rhubarb.... 2007 © T Sheridan
Hark, the sound of it drawing nearer, Clink of hobble and brazen bell; Mark the passage of stalwart shearer, Bidding Monaro soil farewell. Where is he making for? Down the river, Down the river with eager tread; Where is he making for? Down the river, Down the river to seek a 'shed'. Where is his dwelling on old Monaro? Buckley's Crossing, or Jindaboine? Dry Plain is it, or sweet Bolaira? P'raps 'tis near where the rivers join Where is he making for? Down the river. When, oh when, will he turn him back? Soft sighs follow him down the river, Moist eyes gaze at his fading track. See, behind him his pack-horse, ambling, Bears the weight of his master's kit, Oft and oft from the pathway rambling, Crops unhampered by cruel bit. Where is he making for? Equine rover, Sturdy nag from the Eucumbene, Tempted down by the thought of clover, Springing luscious in Riverine. Dreams of life and its future chances, Snatch of song to beguile the way; Through green crannies the sunlight glances, Silver-gilding the bright 'Jack Shay'. "So long, mate, I can stay no longer, So long, mate, I've no time to stop, Pens are waiting me at Mahonga, Bluegong, Grubben and Pullitop. "What! you say that the river's risen? What! that the melted snow has come? What! that it locks and bars our prison? Many's the mountain stream I've swum. I must onward and cross the river, So long, mate, for I cannot stay; I must
THE COVER FOR TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA The cover for Trout Fishing in America is a photograph taken late in the afternoon, a photograph of the Benjamin Franklin statue in San Francisco's Washington Square. Born 1706--Died 1790, Benjamin Franklin stands on a pedestal that looks like a house containing stone furniture. He holds some papers in one hand and his hat in the other. Then the statue speaks, saying in marble: PRESENTED BY H. D. COGSWELL TO OUR BOYS AND GIRLS WHO WILL SOON TAKE OUR PLACES AND PASS ON. Around the base of the statue are four words facing the directions of this world, to the east WELCOME, to the west WELCOME, to the north WELCOME, to the south WELCOME. Just behind the statue are three poplar trees, almost leafless except for the top branches. The statue stands in front of the middle tree. All around the grass is wet from the rains of early February. In the background is a tall cypress tree, almost dark like a room. Adlai Stevenson spoke under the tree in 1956, before a crowd of 40, 000 people. There is a tall church across the street from the statue with crosses, steeples, bells and a vast door that looks like a huge mousehole, perhaps from a Tom and Jerry cartoon, and written above the door is 'Per L'Universo.' Around five o'clock in the afternoon of my cover for Trout Fishing in America, people gather in the park across the street from the church
Fear of Love Have you ever loved someone so much that fear takes control of every emotions. Fear of loving. Fear of losing that felling of floating on air. Fear of one day hearing the words…goodbye… How can love & fear be twisted in one so that you can't even tell them apart. Maybe, loving means risking everything for that one person who makes you feel larger then life. I feel that with you, fear. Fear of feelings I promised myself I would not feel again. Fear of giving myself to be hurt again. Fear of saying goodbye and never loving again. Where do I go from here? Do I let my fear of not being enough drive me away? Do I let go now and let fear win? Do I hold on and allow fear to drive you away? Or do I hold on and shut fear out and know that real love will win? Whatever path our love leads us down one thing I know is true. Your love had made me realize what it is to love so much that fear takes control. Whether that is good or bad remains to be seen. Love knows no time, no place, and no fear. We do that on our own. We try to reason something, love, that had no reasoning about it. Always from a far I saw you. Until one day you were there with warmth in you face I could not refuse. Now you are the man
I The bitterness. the misery, the wretchedness of childhood Put me out of love with God. I can't believe in God's goodness; I can believe In many avenging gods. Most of all I believe In gods of bitter dullness, Cruel local gods Who scared my childhood. II I've seen people put A chrysalis in a match-box, "To see," they told me, "what sort of moth would come." But when it broke its shell It slipped and stumbled and fell about its prison And tried to climb to the light For space to dry its wings. That's how I was. Somebody found my chrysalis And shut it in a match-box. My shrivelled wings were beaten, Shed their colours in dusty scales Before the box was opened For the moth to fly. III I hate that town; I hate the town I lived in when I was little; I hate to think of it. There wre always clouds, smoke, rain In that dingly little valley. It rained; it always rained. I think I never saw the sun until I was nine -- And then it was too late; Everything's too late after the first seven years. The long street we lived in Was duller than a drain And nearly as dingy. There were the big College And the pseudo-Gothic town-hall. There were the sordid provincial shops -- The grocer's, and the shops for women, The shop where I bought transfers, And the piano and gramaphone shop Where I used to stand Staring
In the dark and damp of the alley cold, Lay the Christmas tree that hadn't been sold; By a shopman dourly thrown outside; With the ruck and rubble of Christmas-tide; Trodden deep in the muck and mire, Unworthy even to feed a fire... So I stopped and salvaged that tarnished tree, And thus is the story it told to me: "My Mother was Queen of the forest glade, And proudly I prospered in her shade; For she said to me: 'When I am dead, You will be monarch in my stead, And reign, as I, for a hundred years, A tower of triumph amid your peers, When I crash in storm I will yield you space; Son, you will worthily take my place.' "So I grew in grace like a happy child, In the heart of the forest free and wild; And the moss and the ferns were all about, And the craintive mice crept in and out; And a wood-dove swung on my highest twig, And a chipmunk chattered: 'So big! So big!' And a shy fawn nibbled a tender shoot, And a rabbit nibbled under my root... Oh, I was happy in rain and shine As I thought of the destiny that was mine! Then a man with an axe came cruising by And I knew that my fate was to fall and die. "With a hundred others he packed me tight, And we drove to a magic city of light, To an avenue lined with Christmas trees,
There ought to be a Worldwide ban on whale hunting since all species of whales are becoming rare And of the justification of killing them in the name of so called science the enlightened and aware On the sensitive issue of whaling will tell you that this is all lies That killing in the name of science of marine mammals has always only been a guise For commercialism at the expense of endangered species the human record on conservation is bad The number of creatures extinct and facing extinction for to contemplate even too sad Habitat destruction and killing creatures for greed of money in the World has never been more rife Yet we do not own the Planet we live on we too are part of it's Natural life, 'Tis true that extinction is forever as dead as the dodo they say And more creatures becoming extinct or facing extinction each day For centuries Humans have been trying to destroy Nature we pollute the rivers the Land, sea and sky But Nature will live on forever 'tis only ourselves we'll destroy So why not ban the needless slaughter forever of the last great mammals of the sea We must pay more respect to Nature and protect her creatures the wildborn and the free.
Is this a life, to break thy sleep, To rise as soon as day doth peep? To tire thy patient ox or ass By noon, and let thy good days pass, Not knowing this, that Jove decrees Some mirth, t' adulce man's miseries? --No; 'tis a life to have thine oil Without extortion from thy soil; Thy faithful fields to yield thee grain, Although with some, yet little pain; To have thy mind, and nuptial bed, With fears and cares uncumbered A pleasing wife, that by thy side Lies softly panting like a bride; --This is to live, and to endear Those minutes Time has lent us here. Then, while fates suffer, live thou free, As is that air that circles thee; And crown thy temples too; and let Thy servant, not thy own self, sweat, To strut thy barns with sheaves of wheat. --Time steals away like to a stream, And we glide hence away with them: No sound recalls the hours once fled, Or roses, being withered; Nor us, my friend, when we are lost, Like to a dew, or melted frost. --Then live we mirthful while we should, And turn the iron age to gold; Let's feast and frolic, sing and play, And thus less last, than live our day. Whose life with care is overcast, That man's not said to live, but last; Nor is't a life, seven years to tell, But for to live that half seven well; And that we'll do, as men who
'What bluid's that on thy coat lap? Son Davie! Son Davie! What bluid's that on thy coat lap? And the truth come tell to me, O.' 'It is the bluid of my great hawk, Mother lady, Mother lady! It is the bluid of my great hawk, And the truth I hae tald to thee, O.' 'Hawk's bluid was ne'er sae red, Son Davie! Son Davie! Hawk's bluid was ne'er sae red, And the truth come tell to me, O.' 'It is the bluid of my grey hound, Mother lady! Mother lady! It is the bluid of my grey hound, And it wudna rin for me, O.' 'Hound's bluid was ne'er sae red, Son Davie! Son Davie! Hound's bluid was ne'er sae red, And the truth come tell to me, O.' 'It is the bluid o' my brother John, Mother lady! Mother lady! It is the bluid o' my brother John, And the truth I hae tald to thee, O.' 'What about did the plea begin? Son Davie! Son Davie!' 'It began about the cutting o' a willow wand, That would never hae been a tree, O.' 'What death dost thou desire to die? Son Davie! Son Davie! What death dost thou desire to die? And the truth come tell to me, O.' 'I'll set my foot in a bottomless ship, Mother lady! mother lady! I'll set my foot in a bottomless ship, And ye'll never see mair o' me, O.' 'What wilt thou leave to thy poor wife? Son Davie!
This is a poem that for me elaborates a little about the thought-provoking word ‘crazy’. Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! Stop! They all look at me With words spelling ‘Crazy’ Stop! Stop! Stop! Am I crazy? I forever rant my thoughts to my daisy, She stands in a vase all day playing lazy Stop! Does this make me crazy? Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! An adult who still sleeps fondly with a doll Is usually described ‘a screwball’ Stop! So am I crazy? So what is crazy? Talking to yourself alone on the day bus Walking the street naked without a just cause Sleeping under your bed daily without giving a toss Speaking to the mirror, stating you are the boss shitting in public, wondering why they are making such a fuss Walking and talking like a man, instead of a lady This poem is crazy Stop! So am I crazy? Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah! Ranting away in my new mental home Doctors have labeled me half-baked Simply because of a normal mistake I stopped acting normal First lost all my pals, labeling me ‘Animal’ When I’m only a meat and fish cannibal I'm accused of being mentally deranged Because I shouted in the supermarket as I was dollar short-changed They say I’m mentally unstable Pump me up daily with drugs While tied to the bed with crazy cables Now who is the vicious
When man had ceased to utter his lament, A god then let me tell my tale of sorrow. WHAT hope of once more meeting is there now In the still-closed blossoms of this day? Both heaven and hell thrown open seest thou; What wav'ring thoughts within the bosom play No longer doubt! Descending from the sky, She lifts thee in her arms to realms on high. And thus thou into Paradise wert brought, As worthy of a pure and endless life; Nothing was left, no wish, no hope, no thought, Here was the boundary of thine inmost strife: And seeing one so fair, so glorified, The fount of yearning tears was straightway dried. No motion stirr'd the day's revolving wheel, In their own front the minutes seem'd to go; The evening kiss, a true and binding seal, Ne'er changing till the morrow's sunlight glow. The hours resembled sisters as they went. Yet each one from another different. The last hour's kiss, so sadly sweet, effac'd A beauteous network of entwining love. Now on the threshold pause the feet, now haste. As though a flaming cherub bade them move; The unwilling eye the dark road wanders o'er, Backward it looks, but closed it sees the door. And now within itself is closed this breast, As though it ne'er were open, and as though, Vying with ev'ry star, no moments blest Had, in its presence, felt a kindling glow; Sadness, reproach, repentance, weight of care, Hang heavy on it in the sultry
I went for a walk with my love down to an old vacant lot she took me littered, and broken up it made me sad, made me think of myself I asked why she took me there she silently smiled and took my hand led me to a place The pavement was cracked the ground heaped with garbage old and new near a makeshift shelter that some one had left She kissed my tears away told me to smile when I asked why she told me to open my eyes leaving me confused she said to look at the beauty surrounding us then began to point the doorway of the crude shack was open, and the was a spiderweb moist with the morning dew small dropp formed at it ran down and it was beautiful A few feet away there was a daffodil growing, thriving despite the battered tarmac through which it found a way standing tall and proud as well it should and it was beautiful Just then we looked up and what did we see a blue jay landing atop the roof and began singing it's song The sun was rising peaking over the horizon painting it red, orange, yellow, and even violet the sky was it's canvas and it was beautiful She took me home pointing at many other things while we strolled home when we got there I thanked her told her she was beautiful she stood me in front a mirror telling me to find
Down through bare fields and by many a hedgerow the streams from the high country flow Down to join and swell the big river that into a huge water-way grow On it's long journey to the ocean it babbles along night and day From it's birth-place in the high valley saltwater seems quite a long way, It has outlived generations of people the Seasons they come and they go How old is the very old river the answer anyone does not know Perhaps it has been flowing forever millions of years before the first human was born By the hedges and through the old fields forever it has babbled on since time's first morn, The old poets have sung of the river the river that has not aged in time Their bones long resting in Earth's bosom and the river will outlive their rhyme It babbles on downland forever from the high Country to the vast sea And when people talk of the river they do not talk of mortality, The human life span it seems such a short span the Seasons they come and they go But the river born in the high country forever to the ocean flow.
Beside the pounding cataracts Of midnight streams unknown to us 'Tis builded in the leafless tracts And valleys huge of Tartarus. Lurid and lofty and vast it seems; It hath no rounded name that rings, But I have heard it called in dreams The City of the End of Things. Its roofs and iron towers have grown None knoweth how high within the night, But in its murky streets far down A flaming terrible and bright Shakes all the stalking shadows there, Across the walls, across the floors, And shifts upon the upper air From out a thousand furnace doors; And all the while an awful sound Keeps roaring on continually, And crashes in the ceaseless round Of a gigantic harmony. Through its grim depths re-echoing And all its weary height of walls, With measured roar and iron ring, The inhuman music lifts and falls. Where no thing rests and no man is, And only fire and night hold sway; The beat, the thunder and the hiss Cease not, and change not, night nor day. And moving at unheard commands, The abysses and vast fires between, Flit figures that with clanking hands Obey a hideous routine; They are not flesh, they are not bone, They see not with the human eye, And from their iron lips is blown A dreadful and monotonous cry; And whoso of our mortal race Should find that city unaware, Lean Death would smite him face to face, And blanch him with its venomed air: Or
Corinna, Pride of Drury-Lane, For whom no Shepherd sighs in vain; Never did Covent Garden boast So bright a batter'd, strolling Toast; No drunken Rake to pick her up, No Cellar where on Tick to sup; Returning at the Midnight Hour; Four Stories climbing to her Bow'r; Then, seated on a three-legg'd Chair, Takes off her artificial Hair: Now, picking out a Crystal Eye, She wipes it clean, and lays it by. Her Eye-Brows from a Mouse's Hide, Stuck on with Art on either Side, Pulls off with Care, and first displays 'em, Then in a Play-Book smoothly lays 'em. Now dextrously her Plumpers draws, That serve to fill her hollow Jaws. Untwists a Wire; and from her Gums A Set of Teeth completely comes. Pulls out the Rags contriv'd to prop Her flabby Dugs and down they drop. Proceeding on, the lovely Goddess Unlaces next her Steel-Rib'd Bodice; Which by the Operator's Skill, Press down the Lumps, the Hollows fill, Up hoes her Hand, and off she slips The Bolsters that supply her Hips. With gentlest Touch, she next explores Her Shankers, Issues, running Sores, Effects of many a sad Disaster; And then to each applies a Plaster. But must, before she goes to Bed, Rub off the Daubs of White and Red; And smooth the Furrows in her Front, With greasy Paper stuck upon't. She takes a Bolus e'er she sleeps; And then between two Blankets creeps. With pains of love tormented lies; Or if she chance to
To Alan Mitchell Vixi duellis nuper idoneus Et militavi non sine gloria I. Naming of Parts Today we have naming of parts. Yesterday We had daily cleaning. And tomorrow morning, We shall have what to do after firing. But today, Today we have naming of parts. Japonica Glistens like coral in all of the neighbouring gardens, And today we have naming of parts. This is the lower sling swivel. And this Is the upper sling swivel, whose use you will see, When you are given your slings. And this is the piling swivel, Which in your case you have not got. The branches Hold in the gardens their silent, eloquent gestures, Which in our case we have not got. This is the safety-catch, which is always released With an easy flick of the thumb. And please do not let me See anyone using his finger. You can do it quite easy If you have any strength in your thumb. The blossoms Are fragile and motionless, never letting anyone see Any of them using their finger. And this you can see is the bolt. The purpose of this Is to open the breech, as you see. We can slide it Rapidly backwards and forwards; we call this Easing the spring. And rapidly backwards and forwards The early bees are assaulting and fumbling the flowers: They call it easing the Spring. They call it easing the Spring. It is perfectly easy If you have any strength in your thumb; like the bolt,
My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky; Contrariwise, my blood runs cold When little boys go by. For little boys as little boys, No special hate I carry, But now and then they grow to men, And when they do, they marry. No matter how they tarry, Eventually they marry. And, swine among the pearls, They marry little girls. Oh, somewhere, somewhere, an infant plays, With parents who feed and clothe him. Their lips are sticky with pride and praise, But I have begun to loathe him. Yes, I loathe with loathing shameless This child who to me is nameless. This bachelor child in his carriage Gives never a thought to marriage, But a person can hardly say knife Before he will hunt him a wife. I never see an infant (male), A-sleeping in the sun, Without I turn a trifle pale And think is he the one? Oh, first he'll want to crop his curls, And then he'll want a pony, And then he'll think of pretty girls, And holy matrimony. A cat without a mouse Is he without a spouse. Oh, somewhere he bubbles bubbles of milk, And quietly sucks his thumbs. His cheeks are roses painted on silk, And his teeth are tucked in his gums. But alas the teeth will begin to grow, And the bubbles will cease to bubble; Given a score of years or so, The roses will turn to stubble. He'll sell a bond, or he'll write a
You never heard tell of the story? Well, now, I can hardly believe! Never heard of the honour and glory Of Pardon, the son of Reprieve? But maybe you're only a Johnnie And don't know a horse from a hoe? Well, well, don't get angry, my sonny, But, really, a young un should know. They bred him out back on the "Never", His mother was Mameluke breed. To the front -- and then stay there - was ever The root of the Mameluke creed. He seemed to inherit their wiry Strong frames -- and their pluck to receive -- As hard as a flint and as fiery Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve. We ran him at many a meeting At crossing and gully and town, And nothing could give him a beating -- At least when our money was down. For weight wouldn't stop him, nor distance, Nor odds, though the others were fast; He'd race with a dogged persistence, And wear them all down at the last. At the Turon the Yattendon filly Led by lengths at the mile-and-a-half, And we all began to look silly, While her crowd were starting to laugh; But the old horse came faster and faster, His pluck told its tale, and his strength, He gained on her, caught her, and passed her, And won it, hands down, by a length. And then we swooped down on Menindie To run for the President's Cup; Oh! that's a sweet township -- a shindy To
Anger threatens to steal me away My soul burns with fire, my sanity strays My heart beats faster, one single beat My face reddens sudden from the intense heat Anger came quickly As quickly as can be My thoughts think the worst just wanting to be free It came so fast I can hardly remember While my heart beats with rage and a sole burning ember Anger fell upon me and tore me apart My brain fries from the burn, from the hurt, from the start I begin to wonder how much I can endure As I ball up my hands struggling to gain composure The storm swells up inside me and wears down everything like erosion I know soon it will blow Like a time bomb explosion A giant volcano, about to blow up The lava spilling over, ready to erupt Anger reaches over to a boiling temperature These feelings all too childish, irresponsible, immature Anger threatens to take me away, my eyes now to blind Everything seems red to me, the tint not all too kind Anger spills out over, through every open space Giving another memory, that never I can erase
Reckless Doctors Prescribe Antibiotics Indiscriminately Without even having a Blood Test, just on the Go Do You know, Viral Infections have very less Medicines Will subside in due course on its own automatically? Antibiotics work only for Bacterial Infections Not for Viral Infections, Virus escape Antibiotics easily Many had bitter experience with Qualified Doctors Prescribing Antibiotics indiscriminately Antibiotics kill good Bacterias in Stomach Results, GI upset, Diarrhea, Nausea, Antibiotics have disastrous side effects Impaired Liver, Damaged Kidneys are most important Oflaxacin, Cifexime, Ampicillin, Penicillin are just a few No accountability for Doctors, Indian Doctors specifically Don't take Antibiotics unless double sure with blood tests Indiscriminate usage may take a big toll in health, Life threatening Ask your Doctors, if Antibiotics are must Check Internet for side effects Better believe Internet, Not Doctors alone Many Doctors do Trial and Error Medication Check www.nlm.nih.gov, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed www.umm.edu/ency/, www.wrongdiagnosis.com etc for doubts Nothing comes to light in India in Medical Field ***BE VIGILANT! *** WARNING! ***ANTIBIOTICS ARE DANGEROUS! *** (26-07-2010, Chennai)
I reached for your hand, It wasn’t there I needed your heart, you didn’t care I was born to you, you couldn’t love me I was a mistake, you needed to be free I don’t blame you, life dealt you a bad deal You never knew love, and could not heal Abandoned yourself, a very young child You needed your freedom, to be wild Trapped like a wild animal all your life So much burden to have children and be a wife Made bad choices, abuse was all you knew The worst of mankind is what you drew You never healed from being a kid I couldn’t understand back then, things you did My biggest fear growing up, was being like you I was so broken, but finally pulled through You couldn’t accept my love till you got old and sick I wanted your love through then and thick I took care of you till the very end, my heart breaking I needed your love, and it was finally there for the taking So I want you to know if you can see me up there You will always be in my heart, I’ll always care Do I forgive you, I’m haunted by losing you again I feel so lucky for the short time, before it had to end It’s been two years now, I still carry the pain I’ve always loved you, and it wasn’t in vane The cemetery is painful, I know you aren’t there But I can
! ! GOOBY TO ALL MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS….I WILL MISS YOU ALL! ! Tonight I am going end my pain once and for all this is the only way I know that would stop the stabbing pain in my heart I know I only have 14 more days left but that’s too long this pain must Stop tonight…My friend killed himself over a argument he had with his dad He said 'I WISH I COULD END MY LIFE TO STOP THE PAIN' The next morning he shot himself in the head the next morning Well tonight I'm go to join you Cries Tonight I will see you Tonight will by my happiest night of my life Tonight I'm going to…well Let me just say that I'm going to a happier place I will be Listening to 'Ave Maria' I told myself if I was going to kill myself I would kill myself to the sound of this song You all did what you could to save and repair my light of hope And I thank you for this By the time you knock on my door I will already be in my Special place I love you all 'Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already Mastered, you will Never Grow' 12/5/07
Do not ever, ever, ever ask an Englishman about the weather. Believe you me, it’s a big mistake that you should never ever make. For he’ll go on and on forever until you think that you will never get away from his mad tirade about Fahrenheit and Centigrade. They learn it at their mothers’ knees: it is the national disease where they all seem quite possessed by this strange climatic zest. They’ll talk and talk for simply hours on the possibilities of showers or the outside chance of freezing fog should you want to walk the dog. Thunderstorms will get them going and they really love it when it’s snowing. Especially they find it pleasing to prophesy a spell of freezing. They like their weather pretty dire in places such as Staffordshire and when it comes to wind and gale, they play fine tunes on the Beaufort Scale. Most of all, they really get boring explaining why it’ll soon be pouring, and you’ll learn more than you want to know of drizzle, rain and sleet and snow. So I will give you this advice: “An Englishman can be very nice but keep him off all talk of weather or you’ll be stuck with him for ever.”
The history of Earth dates back to millions of years ago, When a perfect engineer, ‘the God’, created this world. He made life in forms of plants and animals, And for all gave them Earth - the abode. The plants and animals lived in ideal harmony, And there was no trace of agony. Everybody sought merely what was required, Nothing superfluous anybody acquired. The man came at the end And learnt expeditious for himself to fend. Soon he realized the powers he had, And it drove him nearly mad. For others he had no regard, With nature he remained forever at odds. He amassed much more than needed, “Be Cautious” - the nature pleaded. Soon the environment was left degraded. Animals and plants slowly faded. Towards catastrophe the world headed, And hasty correction was severely needed. Mercifully, man has now realized, The world has sufficient for everyone’s’ need But if overexploited It would succumb to man’s greed. Today he is trying to reverse the cycle By protecting Mother Nature so vital. Almighty forgive mistakes of your creation And give him strength for positive action To prevent this world from extinction. AMEN
Other loves may sink and settle, other loves may loose and slack, But I wander like a minstrel with a harp upon my back, Though the harp be on my bosom, though I finger and I fret, Still, my hope is all before me; for I cannot play it yet. In your strings is hid a music that no hand hath e'er let fall, In your soul is sealed a pleasure that you have not known at all; Pleasure subtle as your spirit, strange and slender as your frame, Fiercer than the pain that folds you, softer than your sorrow's name. Not as mine, my soul's annointed, not as mine the rude and light Easy mirth of many faces, swaggering pride of song and fight; Something stranger, something sweeter, something waiting you afar, Secret as your stricken senses, magic as your sorrows are. But on this, God's harp supernal, stretched but to be stricken once, Hoary time is a beginner, Life a bungler, Death a dunce. But I will not fear to match them - no by God, I will not fear, I will learn you, I will play you and the stars stand still to hear.
Ten little brown chicks scattered and scuffled, Under the blue-berries hiding in fear; Mother-grouse cackling, feathers all ruffled, Dashed to defend them as we drew near. Heart of a heroine, how I admired her! Of such devotion great poets have sung; Homes have been blest by the love that inspired her, Risking her life for the sake of her young. Ten little chicks on her valour reliant, Peered with bright eyes from the bilberry spray; Fiercely she faced us, dismayed but defiant, Rushed at us bravely to scare us away. Then my companion, a crazy young devil (After, he told me he'd done it for fun) Pretended to tremble, and raised his arm level, And ere I could check him he blazed with his gun. Headless she lay, from her neck the blood spouted, And dappled her plumage, the poor, pretty thing! Ten little chicks - oh, I know for I counted, Came out and they tried to creep under her wing. Sickened I said: 'Here's an end to my killing; I swear, nevermore bird or beast will I slay; Starving I may be, but no more blood-spilling . . .' That oath I have kept, and I keep it to-day.
There was a young patrolman who Had large but tender feet; They always hurt him badly when He walked upon his beat. (He always took them with him when He walked upon his beat.) His name was Patrick Casey and A sweetheart fair had he; Her face was full of freckles—but Her name was Kate McGee. (It was in spite of freckles that Her name was Kate McGee.) 'Oh, Pat!' she said, 'I’ll wed you when Promotion comes to you!' 'I’m much-obliged,' he answered, and 'I’ll see what I can do.' (I may remark he said it thus— 'Oi’ll say phwat Oi kin do.') So then he bought some new shoes which Allowed his feet more ease— They may have been large twelves. Perhaps Eighteens, or twenty-threes. (That’s rather large for shoes, I think— Eighteens or twenty-threes!) What last they were I don’t know, but Somehow it seems to me I’ve heard somewhere they either were A, B, C, D, or E. (More likely they were five lasts wide— A, B plus C, D, E.) They were the stoutest cowhide that Could be peeled off a cow. But he was not promoted So Kate wed him anyhow. (This world is crowded full of Kates That wed them anyhow.)
Law of love? Sounds good… so, tell me more… Love of law? mmm…maybe…not so sure… You can disregard the ancients – label them Not Applicable – bin that bulky file… or try to make some sense; and they insist that love and law are so close intertwined that together, they may tell more than each other taken individually. What might this mean? Where can we start? Those ancients say that all this universe, all this creation, is one single act of love; love brings it forth, sustains it, nourishes it, and so ultimately, it merges into love; and by the laws of love, which hold all forms by law, our natural state is naught but love; and knowing this, knows no injustice in ourself; knows all as equal; knows no pressures nor compulsions; knows no darkness; and no partiality or preferentiality; and partaking of this universal love, we’re therefore just, and light of heart, and ready of response.. and so, this love, which knows ourself as love, (for every creature's nature is pure love) may love the laws which make our nature thus; love the laws of love, and live as love; so out of love, comes law; and out of law, comes love. only in this fleeting moment of the present is our life lived; and only if, in this continuous now, love and law are present in each action, may we make our golden future; live a golden life, where law has made us free. this, the ancients
I was there when you were born, everyone said that you looked like an angel. For me you were an angel. The nurse put you in my arms and I was trembling.. I was afraid to hold you, I was told that babies are fragile, you only turn up to be fragile later on. I watched you grow. I was there when you said your first word, when you took your first step, when your first tooth appeared and you smiled at me with a relief. I knew you loved me.. I could see it in your eyes, when you were looking at me with all the innocence of the world. I could feel it in your touch, each time you held my hand and hid behind me when grownups were making fool of themselves trying to make you smile. Every afternoon, after a tiring day, when for everyone else I had no time to spare, I always had time for you, my precious baby brother. You drew a yellow circle, with a few wavy lines and you shouted with pride: Sun! It was the prettiest sun I had ever seen. At nights you liked bed time stories, with mean dragons, brave knights and imprisoned princesses. You said that when you grow up you want to be a knight with a shiny panoply or at least an astronaut. Instead you became an angel and you flew away one sunny afternoon.. Since then, every time I feel sad, I sense the
Some activity with an addicting done, Had to purposely afflict them to accept... Misguided beliefs to condone and not shun, To keep in their minds with such effectiveness. To bring them to quickly re-act, Without a thought process useless. As if they had none. 'The sky is falling. The sky is falling! ' ~WHERE? WHERE? ~ 'Over there. Can't you see it? ' ~I could 'if' I chose to. But... Do you mind me asking you this? ~ 'NO! Go ahead. What-what-WHAT? Hurry up.' ~If the sky is falling over there. WHY do you rush to get under it? When the sky is perfectly clear right here? ~ 'You? You're one of those 'nonconformists' aren't you? EVERYONE! EVERYONE! Hear me now. Hear me now. The sky is falling. The sky is falling! We must run to get under it. Come 'everyone. Come.' Some activity with an addicting done, Had to purposely guide them to accept... Misguided beliefs to condone and not shun, To keep in their minds with such effectiveness. To bring them to quickly re-act, Without a thought process intact... To examine and enact with facts attached.
There you were a sight to behold, quietly sleeping, in shimmering folds. No heart to disturb your precious rest, I left you lying there in a faded red dress. Dream my darling dream as only you can listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand I’ll take a walk several blocks away, When I return we’ll start our day. beautiful morning, bright and clear, a glimpse of your shadow mystically near. Dream my darling dream as only you can Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand Your body laid still, no breathing came. Fell to my knees and called out your name. You left me that morning in a faded red dress. Dreams of a future never will be blessed. Dream my darling dream as only you can Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand Now all I have left are the sweet memories, of a beautiful woman, who composed my heart. I cry every night as my hands firmly press, the ruffles so sheer, of that faded red dress. Dream my darling dream as only you can Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand.
Night funeral In Harlem: Where did they get Them two fine cars? Insurance man, he did not pay-- His insurance lapsed the other day-- Yet they got a satin box for his head to lay. Night funeral In Harlem: Who was it sent That wreath of flowers? Them flowers came from that poor boy's friends-- They'll want flowers, too, When they meet their ends. Night funeral in Harlem: Who preached that Black boy to his grave? Old preacher man Preached that boy away-- Charged Five Dollars His girl friend had to pay. Night funeral In Harlem: When it was all over And the lid shut on his head and the organ had done played and the last prayers been said and six pallbearers Carried him out for dead And off down Lenox Avenue That long black hearse done sped, The street light At his corner Shined just like a tear-- That boy that they was mournin' Was so dear, so dear To them folks that brought the flowers, To that girl who paid the preacher man-- It was all their tears that made That poor boy's Funeral grand. Night funeral In Harlem.
I don't believe in love, I decided long ago: that other hearts were summer heat and mine was winter snow I despised them for their impudence, oh such a long way to go! I bet myself another life that I would never feel too What silly girls and silly boys called 'love', their new- found companionship displayed in sycophantic spew of words and promises that would change next week. I thought myself so strong, compared to them so bloody meek And in every spare debate said as loud as I could speak 'There is no such thing as love' don't you get it? Then one day I found myself dreaming, exam half finished beneath me I couldn't stop imagining your hands on my skin, see? But it faded when those words escaped your lips, so true it must be that I am the only one in this stunted world that feels like that. When dreams flash past I take part, (Shadows of limbs intertwined I alone would call art) . It occured to me as daylight, slick and ever bright Swept away the languid presence, the sloe black, crow black night Something that had nothing to do with my beating heart. I might be wrong. Truth is, I am in lust. Not love, not that patronising knife blade, that ignorant, fetid, unreal stigma, but lust. A real emotion, real, raw and completely deserving of a saint, a day, cards that say what we are too polite to, of songs and
O flower at my window Why blossom you so fair, With your green and purple cup Upturned to sun and air? 'I bloom, blithesome Bessie, To cheer your childish heart; The world is full of labor, And this shall be my part.' Whirl, busy wheel, faster, Spin, little thread, spin; The sun shines fair without, And we are gay within. O robin in the tree-top, With sunshine on your breast, Why brood you so patiently Above your hidden nest? 'I brood, blithesome Bessie, And sing my humble song, That the world may have more music From my little ones erelong.' Whirl, busy wheel, faster, Spin, little thread, spin; The sun shines fair without, And we are gay within. O balmy wind of summer, O silver-singing brook, Why rustle through the branches? Why shimmer in your nook? 'I flutter, blithesome Bessie, Like a blessing far and wide; I scatter bloom and verdue Where'er my footsteps glide.' Whirl, busy wheel, faster, Spin, little thread, spin; The sun shines fair without, And we are gay within. O brook and breeze and blossom, And robin on the tree, You make a joy of duty, A pride of industry; Teach me to work as blithely, With a willing hand and heart: The world is full of labor, And I must do my part. Whirl, busy wheel, faster, Spin, little thread, spin; The sun shines fair without, And we are gay within.
They had to bring them from the farms, The rural soldiers far from the storm Those naïve lads deprived of books Who obeyed their orders while sergeants looked; Hayseeds who had never seen the city Fixed bayonets without a dint of pity And marched with fear within their eye Not knowing that their leaders lied; Who jumped down from their transport trucks And formed their lines their eyes awestruck Heads turned around at neon signs, Colonel Sanders left them blind; McDonalds with their great round eyes Came to them a great surprise; These rebels lived in paradise With Coca Cola and pizza pie; So they stormed the Square firing their guns, And shot down Lincoln on the run; Down went Washington and Jefferson Wounded by soldeir/peasants guns; James Madison stood up and tried to sing But they clubbed him in the melee ring; Their sergeant promised them Big Macs, After they concluded their attack. But remember the World War I song And here the peasants sing along, “How you gonna keep them down on the farm, After they’ve had KFC.”
I don't care what you say I don't care how much you deny it You can't dance your wicked way around the truth anymore More and more everyday A crime is being committed No use in lying, crying or pretending that it ain't happening Birth control is murder There! I said it! And no way will I take it back Smothering God's plans for your body beneath your own selfish will is just not right It's just not holy It's a sin That's what it really is Plain and simple If you don't want a baby, then for sure there must be something wrong with you Cos no normal woman would want to take wait or take the chance that never have another shot at that dream A dream that so many women scream, cry and would even die for That's why I can't I just can't understand how so many of you young women can be so selfish So selfish and cruel that you would't give up a mere 9 months to carry a baby for another woman No, instead you want to keep that perfect body for your own purposes No, you would rather spit upon the hopes and dreams of your fellow childless women Birth control is................MURDER! Tell me ladies Just when you are gonna get that through your thick selfish heads? 2008 Ramona Thompson
Now when I have a cold I am careful with my cold, I consult a physician And I do as I am told. I muffle up my torso In woolly woolly garb, And I quaff great flagons Of sodium bicarb. I munch on aspirin, I lunch on water, And I wouldn’t dream of osculating Anybody’s daughter, And to anybody’s son I wouldn’t say howdy, For I am a sufferer Magna cum laude. I don’t like germs, But I’ll keep the germs I’ve got. Will I take a chance of spreading them? Definitely not. I sneeze out the window And I cough up the flue, And I live like a hermit Till the germs get through. And because I’m considerate, Because I’m wary, I am treated by my friends Like Typhoid Mary. Now when you have a cold You are careless with your cold, You are cocky as a gangster Who has just been paroled. You ignore your physician, You eat steaks and oxtails, You stuff yourself with starches, You drink lots of cocktails, And you claim that gargling Is a time of waste, And you won’t take soda For you don’t like the taste, And you prowl around parties Full of selfish bliss, And greet your hostess With a genial kiss. You convert yourself Into a deadly missle, You exhale Hello’s Like a steamboat wistle. You sneeze in the subway And you cough at dances, And let everybody else Take their own good chances. You’re a bronchial boor, A bacterial
All roads that lead to God are good. What matters it, your faith, or mine? Both centre at the goal divine Of love’s eternal Brotherhood. The kindly life in house or street – The life of prayer and mystic rite – The student’s search for truth and light – These paths at one great Junction meet. Before the oldest book was writ, Full many a prehistoric soul Arrived at this unchanging goal, Through changeless Love, that leads to it. What matters that one found his Christ In rising sun, or burning fire? In faith within him did not tire, His longing for the Truth sufficed. Before our modern hell was brought To edify the modern world, Full many a hate-filled soul was hurled In lakes of fire by its own thought. A thousand creeds have come and gone, But what is that to you or me? Creeds are but branches of a tree – The root of love lives on and on. Though branch by branch proved withered wood, The root is warm with precious wine. Then keep your faith, and leave me mine – All roads that lead to God are good.
We will not like those men our offerings pay Who crown the cup, then think they crown the day. We make no garlands, nor an altar build, Which help not Joy, but Ostentation yield. Where mirth is justly grounded these wild toyes Are but a troublesome, and empty noise. 2. But these shall be my great Solemnities, Orinda's wishes for Cassandra's bliss. May her Content be as unmix'd and pure As my Affection, and like that endure; And that strong Happiness may she still find Not owing to her Fortune, but her Mind. 3. May her Content and Duty be the same, And may she know no Grief but in the name. May his and her Pleasure and Love be so Involv'd and growing, that we may not know Who most Affection or most Peace engrost; Whose Love is strongest, or whose Bliss is most. 4. May nothing accidental e're appear But what shall with new bonds their Souls endear; And may they count the hours as they pass, By their own Joys, and not by Sun or Glass: While every day like this may Sacred prove To Friendship, Gratitude, and Strictest Love.
A paragraph from a book by - Washington Irving - The History of New York - about the fortunes of money, that I am presently reading. I hope it will share some wisdom. ' If we could get a peep at the tally of dame fortune, where, like a notable landlady, she regularly chalks up the debtor and creditor accounts of mankind, we should find that, upon the whole, good and evil are pretty nearly balanced in this world; and that though we may for a long while revel in the very lap pf prosperity, the time will at length come, when we must pay off the reckoning. Fortune, in fact, is a pestilent shrew, and withal a most inexorable creditor; for though she may indulge her favourites in long credits, and overwhelm them with her favours; yet sooner or later, she brings up her arrears, with the rigour of an experienced publican, and washes out her scores with their tears. 'SINCE', says good old Boetius in his consolations of philosophy, 'since no man can retain her at his pleasure, and since her flight is so deeply lamented, what are her favours but sure prognostications of approaching trouble and calamity.' 4/27/2009 POEWHIT JESUS SAVES
When the north wind moans thro' the blind creek courses And revels with harsh, hot sand, I loose the horses, the wild red horses, I loose the horses, the mad, red horses, And terror is on the land. With prophetic murmer the hills are humming, The forest-kings bend and blow; With hoofs of brass on the baked earth strumming, O brave red horses, they hear us coming, And the legions of death lean low. O'er the wooded height, and the sandy hollow Where the boles to the axe have rung, Tho' they fly the foreman as flies the swallow, The fierce red horses, my horses, follow With flanks to the faint earth flung. Or with frenzied hieroglyphs, fear embossing Night's sable horizon bars, Thro' tangled mazes of death-darts crossing, I swing my leaders and watch them tossing Their red manes against the stars. But when South winds sob in the drowned creek courses And whisper to hard wet sand, I hold the horses, the spent red horses, I hold the horses, the tired red horses, And silence is on the land. Yea, the South wind sobs among the drowned creek courses For sorrows no man shall bind--- Ah, God! For the horses, the black plumed horses, Dear God! For the horses, Death's own pale horses, That raced in the tracks behind.
THE INDIFFERENT. COME to the dance with me, come with me, fair one! Dances a feast-day like this may well crown. If thou my sweetheart art not, thou canst be so, But if thou wilt not, we still will dance on. Come to the dance with me, come with me, fair one! Dances a feast-day like this may well crown. THE TENDER. Loved one, without thee, what then would all feast be? Sweet one, without thee, what then were the dance? If thou my sweetheart wert not, I would dance not. If thou art still so, all life is one feast. Loved one, without thee, what then would all feasts be? Sweet one, without thee, what then were the dance? THE INDIFFERENT. Let them but love, then, and leave us the dancing! Languishing love cannot bear the glad dance. Let us whirl round in the waltz's gay measure, And let them steal to the dim-lighted wood. Let them but love, then, and leave us the dancing! Languishing love cannot bear the glad dance. THE TENDER. Let them whirl round, then, and leave us to wander! Wand'ring to love is a heavenly dance. Cupid, the near one, o'erhears their deriding, Vengeance takes suddenly, vengeance takes soon. Let them whirl round, then, and leave us to wander! Wand'ring to love is a heavenly dance.
Parliamentary democracy is shield to cheat With smile on face when they collectively meet Countless hours are wasted on stalling the business The emergence of rowdy scene usually surface It was one in million chances to succeed The entire country is engulfed with cast and creed No one has spared the Indian soil with their known greed How could one stay aloof when country is still not freed? People are disgruntled with such type of liberal democracy It has firmly established people’s supremacy Everything is done on the name of people’s welfare In fact their interest is compromised as who takes care? The pilferage and looting of public money is on large scale The judiciary has almost become beyond reach and failed Some of the selected cases only come in for public notice It is really a sad show for world’s largest democracy of promises No country can prosper if loop holes are applied The public is not kept well informed and information is withheld They have right to know what is going on in the holy land Who is their real protector and stands as friend? It is uncertain about effective diplomacy Each party is consolidating its position and remains busy National interest is not their concern but a compulsion The whole of nation’s priority is utterly in confusion We really hope that nations may survive Some of the good steps are to be taken and revived The country needs to protect poor and their interest The politicians must
The eyes open to a cry of pulleys, And spirited from sleep, the astounded soul Hangs for a moment bodiless and simple As false dawn. Outside the open window The morning air is all awash with angels. Some are in bed-sheets, some are in blouses, Some are in smocks: but truly there they are. Now they are rising together in calm swells Of halcyon feeling, filling whatever they wear With the deep joy of their impersonal breathing; Now they are flying in place, conveying The terrible speed of their omnipresence, moving And staying like white water; and now of a sudden They swoon down in so rapt a quiet That nobody seems to be there. The soul shrinks From all that it is about to remember, From the punctual rape of every blessed day, And cries, "Oh, let there be nothing on earth but laundry, Nothing but rosy hands in the rising steam And clear dances done in the sight of heaven." Yet, as the sun acknowledges With a warm look the world's hunks and colors, The soul descends once more in bitter love To accept the waking body, saying now In a changed voice as the man yawns and rises, "Bring them down from their ruddy gallows; Let there be clean linen for the backs of thieves; Let lovers go fresh and sweet to be undone, And the heaviest nuns walk in a pure floating Of dark habits, keeping their difficult balance." Submitted by Robert Fish
There fared a mother driven forth Out of an inn to roam; In the place where she was homeless All men are at home. The crazy stable close at hand, With shaking timber and shifting sand, Grew a stronger thing to abide and stand Than the square stones of Rome. For men are homesick in their homes, And strangers under the sun, And they lay on their heads in a foreign land Whenever the day is done. Here we have battle and blazing eyes, And chance and honour and high surprise, But our homes are under miraculous skies Where the yule tale was begun. A Child in a foul stable, Where the beasts feed and foam; Only where He was homeless Are you and I at home; We have hands that fashion and heads that know, But our hearts we lost - how long ago! In a place no chart nor ship can show Under the sky's dome. This world is wild as an old wives' tale, And strange the plain things are, The earth is enough and the air is enough For our wonder and our war; But our rest is as far as the fire-drake swings And our peace is put in impossible things Where clashed and thundered unthinkable wings Round an incredible star. To an open house in the evening Home shall men come, To an older place than Eden And a taller town than Rome. To the end of the way of the wandering star, To
All things within this fading world hath end, Adversity doth still our joys attend; No ties so strong, no friends so dear and sweet, But with death's parting blow are sure to meet. The sentence past is most irrevocable, A common thing, yet oh, inevitable. How soon, my Dear, death may my steps attend, How soon't may be thy lot to lose thy friend, We both are ignorant, yet love bids me These farewell lines to recommend to thee, That when the knot's untied that made us one, I may seem thine, who in effect am none. And if I see not half my days that's due, What nature would, God grant to yours and you; The many faults that well you know I have Let be interred in my oblivious grave; If any worth or virtue were in me, Let that live freshly in thy memory And when thou feel'st no grief, as I no harmes, Yet love thy dead, who long lay in thine arms, And when thy loss shall be repaid with gains Look to my little babes, my dear remains. And if thou love thyself, or loved'st me, These O protect from stepdame's injury. And if chance to thine eyes shall bring this verse, With some sad sighs honor my absent hearse; And kiss this paper for thy dear love's sake, Who with salt tears this last farewell did take.
1. Fun Why would the sum of Tolylfluanid and Dimethylaminosulfotoluidide be expressed as Tolylfluanid? Clearly Tolylfluanid is a he and Dimethylaminosulfotoluidide is a she, so the kid should proudly carry the name Of the father’s clan… But I’m glad to report the sum of Benomyl and Carbendazim is expressed as Carbendazim making the gender question quite superfluous If you know what I mean… 2. Last But Not Least – Prince Diazinon I know, these impressive names could be used in a Terry-Pratchett-type novel about the Discworld - ancient families in the Ramtops and learned scholars at Magic University, though Mustrum Ridcully will always be my favourite, the library baboon definitely a firm second, as well as Lord Vetinirari Let’s look at the fabulous list of families: Mr and Mrs Azoxystrobin, young Chlorfenapyr, The beautiful Isabella Folpet, Madame Iprodione, she’d have to be the seamstresses’ leader, I think Professor Lambda-Cyhalothrin, That mad Hatter of a guy called Maleic Hydrazide, Little Metalaxyl, and last but not least – Prince Diazinon…
The modern world seems crazy to the core; We strike a balance in most things we do; Money appears to solve problems many; Muscle does some things that money cannot. The Media makes celebrities o’er-night; Influence guides bureaucrat’s decisions; Merit is given a back-seat most times; Merchants make money paying taxes least. Most honest citizens are taxed the most; Success smiles on men without conscience; The righteous eke a livelihood of toil; The lazy ones make money rather fast. God allows ghastly crimes to happen too; Nevertheless, both good and bad things end; The evil-doers have a mighty crash; God gives a longer rope to most such men. This does not mean that dishonesty lasts; The wicked suffer punishments on earth; They fizzle out like soap-bubbles in sun; Untruth can’t rule the roost on earth for long. Reality will bring justice to all; The day of reckoning will seal all fates; All evil hearts can’t escape God’s judgment; Their harm will be disclosed in great detail. God’s mercy may not save them from Hell’s fire; The upright souls will get rewards from God; The God of goodness loves the righteous; He takes them to His own Abode- Heaven. Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-2-2008
1899 Who would trust England, let him lift his eyes To Nelson, columned o'er Trafalgar Square, Her hieroglyph of duty, written where The roar of traffic hushes to the skies; Or mark, while Paul's vast shadow softly lies On Gordon's statued sleep, how praise and prayer Flush through the frank young faces clustering there To con that kindred rune of sacrifice. O England, no bland cloud-ship in the blue, But rough oak plunging on o'er perilous jars Of reef and ice, our faith will follow you The more for tempest roar that strains your spars And splits your canvas, be your helm but true, Your courses shapen by the eternal stars. 1900 The nightmare melts at last, and London wakes To her old habit of victorious ease. More men, and more, and more for over-seas, More guns until the giant hammer breaks That patriot folk whom even God forsakes. Shall not Great England work her will on these, The foolish little nations, and appease An angry shame that in her memory aches? But far beyond the fierce-contested flood, The cannon-planted pass, the shell-torn town, The last wild carnival of fire and blood, Beware, beware that dim and awful Shade, Armored with Milton's sword and Cromwell's frown, Affronted Freedom, of her own betrayed!
The sun went down for the night to cover The earth that lay bare in front of me Like the face you hide for the lover to adore The curves and lines the dusk of your beauty Like dark clouds pattering the aroma of earth The sketch on coal on the white of moon The river convulsing in matriarchal rage When I was the shore infinite for the deluge Overflowing and exuding like volcano On the sand I made and made again From the moon the sketch I remember The reflection in the river with a soul It was like the jewel on your forehead The wounds on my heart when I blow Who says forgetfulness I have acquired Nothing is left of me for my self to know Eloquence I add to words like music In counterpoint when it turns on itself Like the lock of your hair that touches The cheek and the lips when they speak In the colors of fire thou appear to me Remove my name from the verse of venom Thou shalt be Cleopatra and thou shalt take Thy life with lust to be bitten by serpent The serpent of love that thou playeth with And when my blood thou shall rub on thy cheek And mourn the beaten bosom for the lost love 27/1/2009
MARK you not yon sad procession; 'Mid the ruin'd abbey's gloom, Hastening to the worm's possession, To the dark and silent tomb! See the velvet pall hangs over Poor mortality's remains; We should shudder to discover What that coffin's space contains. Death itself is lovely—wearing But the colder shape of sleep; Or the solemn statue bearing Beauty that forbids to weep. But decay—the pulses tremble When its livid signs appear; When the once-loved lips resemble All we loathe, and all we fear. Is it not a ghastly ending For the body's godlike form, Thus to the damp earth descending, Food and triumph to the worm? Better far the red pile blazing With the spicy Indian wood, Incense unto heaven raising From the sandal oil's sweet flood. In the bright pyre's kindling flashes, Let my yielded soul ascend; Fling to the wild winds my ashes 'Till with mother-earth they blend. Not so,—let the pale urn keep them; Touch'd with spices, oil, and wine; Let there be some one to weep them; Wilt thou keep that urn? Love mine!
I throw my gun in the back of my truck With it I hope to kill a 12-point buck While in the woods, BANG! I see the deer fall I take him home, freeze the meat, and mount his horns on my wall I grab my pole and tackle box and head to the lake At this time in the morning, I feel barely awake There is no school today, I’m glad there is no class A mighty tug on my line, I hook a large mouth bass There is nothing like hunting; waiting for the kill Cutting and cleaning the meat my freezer I’ll soon fill Deer steaks and deer jerky have such a great taste And with his head on my wall nothing goes to waste I like fishing, fishing is fun Fishing underneath the rising sun I like catching the fish and putting them in a net Fish is a great dish when the table is set My truck is unstoppable; it can’t beat I slam the door and strap myself in the seat I start the engine and press the gas to the floor My truck takes off and my engine lets out a roar I wouldn’t be able to hunt or fish if it wasn’t for my truck With it I carry poles, guns, and my fallen buck I pull my boat with my truck in four-wheel-drive At my destination I always arrive
When times are bad and you have no friends When the hopes of life lead to dead ends When all your surroundings have nothing to give And you can’t imagine life the way you live When on your knees you bend and you kneel How lonely do you feel? When time goes by and you can’t keep pace When the world laughs at your weary face When all that you thought had belonged to you Turns into trash, your happiness too When life takes the fruit and leaves the peel How lonely do you feel? When all those things that once were yours Go by like the ticking hours When you’ve got nothing, no one to turn to When all your people have betrayed you When you are left with no joy, no zeal How lonely do you feel? When life is more of a terror than a test When you get nothing though you try your best When you are numb and you find not a wound healing When you are a bird without any wings When in the game of life you’ve lost the deal How lonely do you feel? When you find a person in such a state Go up to him, do not wait Let this question go on like a wheel Ask him, “How lonely do you feel? ”
Power or no power Tuesday, March 27,2018 6: 40 AM Power or no power Your words carry it further Your image, in public eyes, gets it stronger You become recognized and acceptable figure You damage your own personality And get nowhere to the reality Your artificial leanings worsens the image No one takes you seriously in terms of critical phase The dynasty rule goes in your disfavor Your public utterances don't earn you any favor Your party line in terms of policy matters Creates you as an unimpressive figure To take help from like-minded parties is alright But to cash on unholy lines makes your position not right You are guided by people who are causing your fall Create sagging image and no one responds to call It is clear from your move In any way, it will not improve your position The party may gown further You shall be seen nowhere The regional parties have their own agenda They have only one plea Remove the B.J.P from power They want to use you as cover They have no intention to accept you as leader It will get harder and harder You shall be compelled to comprise And accept their man as a leader with promises
Swiftly walk o'er the western wave, Spirit of Night! Out of the misty eastern cave, Where, all the long and lone daylight, Thou wovest dreams of joy and fear, Which make thee terrible and dear-- Swift be thy flight! Wrap thy form in a mantle gray, Star-inwrought! Blind with thine hair the eyes of day; Kiss her until she be wearied out, Then wander o'er city, and sea, and land, Touching all with thine opiate wand-- Come, long-sought! When I arose and saw the dawn, I sighed for thee; When light rode high, and the dew was gone, And noon lay heavy on flower and tree, And the weary day turned to his rest, Lingering like an unloved guest, I sighed for thee. Thy brother Death came, and cried, Wouldst thou me? Thy sweet child Sleep, the filmy-eyed, Murmured like a noontide bee, Shall I nestle near thy side? Wouldst thou me?--And I replied, No, not thee! Death will come when thou art dead, Soon, too soon-- Sleep will come when thou art fled; Of neither would I ask the boon I ask of thee, beloved Night-- Swift be thine approaching flight, Come soon, soon!
LOW FINISTERRE 1007 LOSING ITS IDENTITY BY THE SAME TIME It’s BBC Radio 4 but the familiar litany of THE SHIPPING FORECAST is alas...maimed not the same. They changed a national institution of the mind redeveloped the mental landscape. They have even dare to have it moved by 15 minutes and renamed FINISTERRE ...FITZROY. L ike ...why? It isn’t cricket ...is it? This the beloved Lord’s Prayer of places. Not even a great British outrage could save it change the changes. For years its well worn sounds embedded in our head the national psyche as we drifted off to sleep perchance to dream with SAILING BY. But secretly we recite night by night re-instating FINISTERRE le tting FITZROY sink to the bottom of our minds drown as we cuddle up to the long loved old familiar sounds. ******* Con sternation was caused when a name change was brought about in Feb.2002 and the well known and well worn sound of FINISTERRE was transformed into FITZROY. It was as if one had attacked a living person...a great British institution and there was uproar and pandemonium. But FITZROY won the day and the man who carried Darwin on the BEAGLE and invented the weather forecast was the new sound in town. He was a Christian creationist and never forgave himself for evolving Darwin and indeed committed suicide later on in life over the grief of this.) I prefer the world’s end feeling and sound of FINISTERRE but...there ya are!
I watch the sunlight dance across your face of elegance, And I've never been this swept away in romance...... All my thoughts just seem to settle on the breeze When I'm lying wrapped up in your arms...... The whole world just fades away in nothingness; The only thing I hear is the beating of your heart, oh tess! Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight! Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart! I can feel magic floating in air, being with you gets me that way I can feel you breathe, it’s washing over me, oh baby love empress I'm melting into you, I can feel your charm, oh baby love countess Nothing left to prove much, just to be caught up in your touch, I can feel you breathe, just breathe, the slow and steady rush as such! Keep me warm, Kiss me hard, hug me lot, feel my heart anyway. Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight! Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart! I love you love for the love you gave and for time we had.... I love you love for the tempestuous thoughts and happiness I got; I love you love for your support and for loving me a lot. I love you love for teaching me love and making me beloved. I love your for living with me 24/7 and seventy times seven! I love you
A little baby girl screams out her silent cry Knowing that her mother may chose for her to die Abortion is a word she never wants to hear As she gasps in her mother's womb so still and filled with fear. A little baby girl screams out her silent cry While thinking to herself and wondering why How could her mother have chose this terrible choice Does she not hear her baby crying with her tiny little voice? 'I tell her to be strong and not to let me go, I love her so mush, and I just want her to know. Why doesn't she listen to me? Doesn't she care? It's my life too! What if I want to live, it's just not fair! ' A little baby girl screams out her silent cry And much too soon among the angels she will fly Her life is ending, even though it has truly not begun Due to her mother's choice she will miss out on everything fun. A little baby girl screams out her silent cry Now only after a few weeks of life it's her time to die Her life is slowly ending as her limbs are ripped apart How could people get an abortion, don't they have a heart? A little baby girl no longer screams out her silent cry She now resides in heaven so high up in the sky She sweetly smiles down at her mother and bows her head As she sees her praying
A pinch of this and a pinch of that can improve a recipe, but a pinched nerve, in my spine, can make a mess of me. This week I was doing a routine chore. I bent to lift a plastic bag. The result, I believe, was a pinched nerve, which made my body sag. Well, it didn’t sag immediately; at first it was just a mild twinge, but within a day my back sagged like.......a door with a broken hinge. Of course once I felt “that twinge”, I “should have” paused to rest. Instead I took a walk AND did chores......to give myself a test. My body failed the test, and I was shown to be a FOOL. I’d thought the walk would be good for me and all would turn out cool. After all, I’ve had trouble before......and lived again to play. But I “SHOULD” have ceased activities.......for the remainder of the day. Now I’m resting midday, in our bed, watching birds at the feeder, while my wife does HER chores, plus helps ME.......if I need her. Luckily I’ve had no shooting pain in my leg as I had some years ago. I plan to be much better in a few more days.......IF I take it SLOW. I’ve hardly yelled in pain at all today; already there is improvement, and, luckily, I can manage to get to toilet (by myself) to have a bowel movement. (January 2013)
Mine, says the cat, putting out his paw of darkness. My lover, my friend, my slave, my toy, says the cat making on your chest his gesture of drawing milk from his mother's forgotten breasts. Let us walk in the woods, says the cat. I'll teach you to read the tabloid of scents, to fade into shadow, wait like a trap, to hunt. Now I lay this plump warm mouse on your mat. You feed me, I try to feed you, we are friends, says the cat, although I am more equal than you. Can you leap twenty times the height of your body? Can you run up and down trees? Jump between roofs? Let us rub our bodies together and talk of touch. My emotions are pure as salt crystals and as hard. My lusts glow like my eyes. I sing to you in the mornings walking round and round your bed and into your face. Come I will teach you to dance as naturally as falling asleep and waking and stretching long, long. I speak greed with my paws and fear with my whiskers. Envy lashes my tail. Love speaks me entire, a word of fur. I will teach you to be still as an egg and to slip like the ghost of wind through the grass.
Born in the famine struck Africa Living at the age of five You told me mother, That I was lucky to be alive. When my friends were dying of hunger And my health too began to crumble, We could not afford to buy food and healthcare things, Owing to our meagre earnings. The day that I bid good-bye to life Vivid memories of you I locked inside My life conveyed a grave reality Of numerous malnourishment deaths, indeed a pity! Maybe God had written this fate for me, Dying, rather than living in pain was how he had planned it to be. I know you wished I could live a while longer But I ask of you to find your feet and be stronger. Mother, I know you didn't have an alternative You dug a shallow pit & let my body rest in peace. No Gravestone, No mark to identify my tomb by Not even a picture of me, to look at and cry. Standing here at heavens gate I see you, moving on in life ahead I have of God just one complain, Why such short life span did you paint? Mother, now that I no longer exist Don't ever strike me off from your 'I love...' list! Remember me as a glorious flower Who happened to spread joy, though just for an hour.
Ned Kelly was a hero and despite what some do say The legend of his bravery in Australia lives today As game as Ned Kelly is a well known Aussie quote The leader of the Kelly gang remains as one of note. The Kelly gang were victims of unfair local law And the raping of his sister Kate by the police was surely the last straw Ned and his brother Dan and their friends Steve Hart and Joe Byrne became outlaws and they ranged far and wide And they robbed banks in the small Towns of Victoria-New South Wales border Countryside. The most recognizable Australian in Australia's brief white history His unfair trial and his hanging in Melbourne jail assured him of immortality Though far better people than them are long forgotten and gone The legend of the Kelly gang is with us and lives on. The Kelly gang were not as ruthless as some make them out to be They may have caused the deaths of a few Policemen but even those with anti Kelly views agree That there was some provocation the Kelly gang was on the run And you shoot back when you are shot at that is the law of the gun. Ned Kelly is a hero and 'tis said that he died game And in Australian folklore his is an immortal name And whatever way you see him on one thing all do agree That the legend of the Kelly gang lives on in Aussie
Store up for a while What things you might need Just for few weeks No more you see We've lived with the sins Of greed and lust We don't need anymore To be blamed on us Just do it slow That way from where it might flow It might be here faster For others you know. Some planted early It won't be too long So just the staples In case something goes wrong And point out the toxins Planted in the way So others can see them As they pass here today Just point them out As you pass by No false accurasations For our goal is High The Lord's Prayer Our Father Which art in heaven Hallowed be Thy Name Thy Kingdom come THY WILL BE DONE On earth as it is in Heaven Give us this day our daily Bread And forgive us our sins For we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us And lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil For Thine is the Kingdom and the power and the glory Forever. Amen. Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life
'Tis a dull sight To see the year dying, When winter winds Set the yellow wood sighing: Sighing, oh! sighing. When such a time cometh, I do retire Into and old room Beside a bright fire: Oh, pile a bright fire! And there I sit Reading old things, Of knights and lorn damsels, While the wind sings— Oh, drearily sings! I never look out Nor attend to the blast; For all to be seen Is the leaves falling fast: Falling, falling! But close at the hearth, Like a cricket, sit I, Reading of summer And chivalry— Gallant chivalry! Then with an old friend I talk of our youth! How 'twas gladsome, but often Foolish, forsooth: But gladsome, gladsome! Or to get merry We sing some old rhyme, That made the wood ring again In summertime— Sweet summertime! Then go we to smoking, Silent and snug: Nought passes between us, Save a brown jug— Sometimes! And sometimes a tear Will rise in each eye, Seeing the two old friends So merrily— So merrily! And ere to bed Go we, go we, Down on the ashes We kneel on the knee, Praying together! Thus, then, live I, Till, 'mid all the gloom, By heaven! the bold sun Is with me in the room Shining, shining! Then the clouds part, Swallow soaring between; The spring is alive, And the meadows are green! I jump up, like mad, Break the old pipe in twain, And away to the meadows, The meadows again!
Sitting high upon the bleachers to get a good view of the made-up stage. A castle drawbridge with banners flying above it, the backdrop for the walkway soon to be walked upon by many outstanding students. Announcements, Star Spangled Banner, Pledge of Allegiance, and noted teachers making their speeches. At last, students standing row by row, single file, waiting for their names of distinction to be called. An eternity goes by, then suddenly my son is standing, walking, waiting to be called onto the imaginary red carpet, as he strides proudly across the walkway suspended slightly in the air. Then it happens, they call his name, mispronounce it, but my son walks without any hesitation or break in stride, to receive his diploma, his moment in the spotlight. Tears in my eyes, I quietly clap with dignity for my son, I couldn't be prouder, my love for him overflowing. Such a joyous moment in the life of a Mother, there are no words to express how proud I am of him. This moment in time reminding me of past moments in his life when I was proud to be his Mother. And now, once again, he has touched my life with his achievement and I can only say, so humbly, how very proud I am, to be his Mother. (5/16/96)
Try to remember some details. Remember the clothing of the one you love so that on the day of loss you'll be able to say: last seen wearing such-and-such, brown jacket, white hat. Try to remember some details. For they have no face and their soul is hidden and their crying is the same as their laughter, and their silence and their shouting rise to one height and their body temperature is between 98 and 104 degrees and they have no life outside this narrow space and they have no graven image, no likeness, no memory and they have paper cups on the day of their rejoicing and paper cups that are used once only. Try to remember some details. For the world is filled with people who were torn from their sleep with no one to mend the tear, and unlike wild beasts they live each in his lonely hiding place and they die together on battlefields and in hospitals. And the earth will swallow all of them, good and evil together, like the followers of Korah, all of them in thir rebellion against death, their mouths open till the last moment, praising and cursing in a single howl. Try, try to remember some details.
On this thy natal day permit a friend - A brother - with thy joys his own to blend: In all gladness he would wish to share As willing in thy griefs a part to bear. Meekly attend the ways of higher heav'n! Is much deny'd? Yet much my dear is giv'n. Thy health, thy reason unimpaired remain And while as new fal'n snows thy spotless fame The partner of thy life, attentive - kind - And blending e'en the interests of the mind. What bliss is thine when fore thy glistring eye Thy lovely infant train pass jocund by! The ruddy cheek, the smiling morning face Denote a healthy undegenerate race: In them renew'd, you'll live and live again, And children's children's children lisp thy name. Bright be the skies where'er my sister goes Nor scowling tempests injure her repose - The field of life with roses thick be strow'd Nor one sharp thorn lie lurking in the road. Thy ev'ry path be still a path of peace And each revolving year thy joys increase; Till hours and years of time itself be o'er And one eternal day around thee pour.
When I was in Junior High A term for Middle School in a time gone by My Mother bought me a briefcase of pink Although I loved it, I was worried what others would think It gave the kids a reason to poke fun Carrying a pink briefcase, I was the only one. So I’d leave home briefcase in hand then hide it under a tree Because I did not want the kids to make fun of me. Someone tore off the handle and made me mad The ruined briefcase made my Mother sad. Kids still made fun of me anyway As I walked to school day after day I was young and weak then Teenage life was hard without a friend. Those days were difficult and long But they built character and made me strong. A life’s lesson was taught By the pink briefcase my Mother bought. I learned to walk in my own shoes And live my life as I’d choose. Many years of time have passed. Is that our grandson’s girlfriend? My husband asked I can’t tell, they all look and dress the same The only thing different about them is their name I can’t distinguish one girl from another. Too bad she’d never been given a pink briefcase by her Mother!
In the State of Kerala, South-west of India, There exists a town, As Kaladi, it’s known. As a famous pilgrim center, At the bank of Purna River, There lived in this Town Many Namboodri Brahmins. Among them was one, Sivaguru, a poor Brahmin, Who led a spiritual life, With Aryambal, his wife. They had no children. To beget a pious one They prayed daily the Lord, Shiva, the most merciful God. One day, in his dream, The Lord, Shiva came, And told him like this To fulfill the wish of his. “Do you want a son, The most intelligent one, With less years of age But will live like a sage? ” “Or, many sons you need, With their sins and greed? You’ve your option, And choose any one.” He told this to Aryambal. Next day, in the temple, Before Shiva, the Lord They earnestly prayed. “Oh Lord, What’s good To serve this world You know it well. This how can we tell? ” “Despite short-lived-one, Let us have a good son, Who’ll bring us credit With his every noble act.” In the Month of Vaikasi, Under the star Tiruvathirai, Shiva himself was born As Sankara, their only son. He came to destroy adharma, And well establish dharma As their son, Sankara, In this miserable Kali Yuga.
The world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't mind happiness not always being so very much fun if you don't mind a touch of hell now and then just when everything is fine because even in heaven they don't sing all the time The world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't mind some people dying all the time or maybe only starving some of the time which isn't half bad if it isn't you Oh the world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't much mind a few dead minds in the higher places or a bomb or two now and then in your upturned faces or such other improprieties as our Name Brand society is prey to with its men of distinction and its men of extinction and its priests and other patrolmen and its various segregations and congressional investigations and other constipations that our fool flesh is heir to Yes the world is the best place of all for a lot of such things as making the fun scene and making the love scene and making the sad scene and singing low songs and having inspirations and walking around looking at everything and smelling flowers and goosing statues and even thinking and kissing people and making babies and wearing pants and waving hats and dancing and going swimming in rivers on picnics in the middle of the summer and just generally 'living it up'
And now the bell, - the bell She had so often heard by night and day And listened to with solemn pleasure, E'en as a living voice, - Rung its remorseless toll for her, So young, so beautiful, so good. Decrepit age, and vigorous life, And blooming youth, and helpless infancy, Poured forth, - on crutches, in the pride of strength And health, in the full blush Of promise, the mere dawn of life, - To gather round her tomb. Old men were there, Whose eyes were dim And senses failing, - Grandames, who might have died ten years ago, And still been old, - the deaf, the blind, the lame, The palsied, The living dead in many shapes and forms, To see the closing of this early grave. What was the death it would shut in, To that which still could crawl and keep above it! Along the crowded path they bore her now; Pure as the new fallen snow That covered it; whose day on earth Had been as fleeting. Under that porch, where she had sat when Heaven In mercy brought her to that peaceful spot, She passed again, and the old church Received her in its quiet shade. They carried her to one old nook, Where she had many and many a time sat musing, And laid their burden softly on the pavement. The light streamed on it through The colored window, - a window where the boughs Of trees were ever rustling In the summer,
Know the Truth, it will set you free, Christ is that Truth, and It is He. To know the Truth is personally, do you know The God of Eternity? The real truth is more than fact; it is Our Lord, who is coming back. Today are you free in The Truth, or will you see His strong reproof? This Truth that you come to know, goes with you wherever you go. Will you have Truth by your side, the very day after you have died? And this Truth that sets men free, also helps the blind men to see. Did you receive the sight to see, the only Truth that rules Eternity? When you see The Eternal Truth, you will be Christ’s living proof, That God truly sets men free, as a changed man is what men see. They’re freed from a darkened past, given a freedom that will last. Freedom offered to both you and me, in Christ through all Eternity. Christ is the only Truth you need, in this life to be set free indeed. Do you have this freedom friend, that in Christ Jesus will not end? His freedom always brings peace, even as other freedoms cease. Will all your earthly freedom end, when you see our Savior friend? God’s plans never fail my friend, as Satan learned way back when. Are you still under Satan’s guise, or has Christ opened your eyes? God sent the Savior Jesus Christ, as the freedom men need in life, Will
In the mid-city, under an oiled sky, I lay in a garden of such dusky green It seemed the dregs of the imagination. Hedged round by elegant spears of iron fence My face became a moon to absent suns. A low heat beat upon my reading face; There rose no roses in that gritty place But blue-gray lilacs hung their tassels out. Hard zinnias and ugly marigolds And one sweet statue of a child stood by. A gutter of poetry flowed outside the yard, Making me think I was a bird of prose; For overhead, bagged in a golden cloud, There hung the fatted souls of animals, Wile at my eyes bright dots of butterflies Turned off and on like distant neon signs. Assuming that this garden still exists, One ancient lady patrols the zinnias (She looks like George Washington crossing the Delaware), The janitor wanders to the iron rail, The traffic mounts bombastically out there, And across the street in a pitch-black bar With midnight mirrors, the professional Takes her first whiskey of the afternoon-- Ah! It is like a breath of country air.
This will stand the test of time, a poem of Truth with added rhyme, They are Truths, from God’s Word; Bible Truths we all have heard. And nothing has been added to, the words of Truth from me to you, God’s the One to be stressed, and Christ who passes Eternal tests. The Lord starts by giving life to us, creating all men out of the dust, Creating man in the image of God, to put us over the earth we trod, Over all the creatures that we see, created by The God of Eternity, Created to live forever, to never die, up until Satan, to man had lied. With man listening to Satan friend, his life on earth now would end, And sin had brought an awful price, for man had to leave Paradise. Shut out from God’s original plan, and all He had prepared for man, And left to live out a temporal life, upon this earth of pain and strife. For all received from God a curse, so all life ahead was only worse, So now Adam like the rest of us, would soon return back to the dust. But God’s Grace did rise above, sin’s awful curse through His Love, Whom He would send to everyone, in Christ His Only Begotten Son. Jesus Christ who died upon a cross, to pay sin’s price for all the lost. By Satan’s lie men were deceived, but in God’s Son we can believe. And with the rhymes in this
It really bothers me when someone doesn't conclude their thought, their eyes following something I can't quite make out yet. From my vantage point, it's still up there somewhere, over the trees- or caught up in them- something they deemed it necessary that I should know- But then they stop, and they close their mouths; all unknowing, or else in denial, that they left that kite just hanging uselessly somewhere in the still opaque skies. Children are pointing somewhere now, as it floats overhead, an unmanned kite, of home and duration unknown. The sun reflects mutely off it's bare bones and tensile membranes; in imagination, an unseated kite can go on flying forever, but like a blind or unpiloted aircraft, even its seconds must be numbered. And the unknown colors and possible direction haunts me, like a deathbed confession, that never made it out before the tongue froze forever to the palate. Somewhere it's burning now, with a low flash of flame, it's small jettison of fuel only a black smudge, against the horizon- The treasure is lost; the disclosure never came- no one was saved. No one was saved.
Success lies beneath the popular support If you maintain contacts and good rapport It will be great encouragement and strength If maintained on same wavelength What amounts to failure or success? When you fail to have full access Relentless efforts with continuous zeal It will mark a” finish” with final seal It makes very great difference? If you fail to draw correct inference You must heed and pay to an expert advice When something fails as mechanical device United we stand and divided we fall If you not wake up and not heed to call You can swim against rising waves With resolute action ways may pave People will be frustrated and annoyed If message is not be properly conveyed Close your hand and it will form strength People will follow it with same good length Young may have to sacrifice and die Not to give way and not simply lie It is need of an hour and must rise to occasion Not to wait for chance or battle for succession More you work in peace time than less you may bleed Success may touch your feet and you may succeed Why not take chance and work for peace? Life may be normal and you may leave at ease
*obviously, I mean not him, but for the fact that he has to work so late so often... sigh.... :) So, how did it happen? Tell me. How, where and when? And how dare you enchant me with every dash of your pen? How dare you turn this (admittedly romantic-ish fool) with a hug and a kiss into your very own tool? That Miss Independent, who would live on her own; that 'I don't need anyone, I'm fine all alone', that runner-awayer, excusing delayer, belligerently expecting a life of neglecting.... wishing to have a retreat, to retain my own place, to hold back at whim, have 'emotional space'.... Miss Independent! Miss 'leave-me-alone'! Miss 'I am hell-bent on having time on my own! ' Miss 'Do not intrude, I will do it MY way' Miss 'I am not listening - you may NOT have your say! ' How did it happen? Tell me... when, how and where? Reassure me, my husband, you'll always be there. I was, I think, just quite simply Miss-judging in what I have grown so to utterly loving. And the Miss-this, Miss-that, and the Miss that was true is only ever, in your absence, the 'Wife Misses You'. xxxxxx
Nothing wrong has been done By Dana Majhi of Kalahandi. He has just taken away On his shoulder, The dead body of his wife. The sweetheart of Dana Majhi, As you know, died in TB At the hospital. But let me ask a question Why you people are so much Worried about the incidents? It is because something Wrong is there within you, It is because you are enjoying Your life, at the cost of the people And doing no welfare acts so far. Remember, the summum bonum of life Is situated in the loving service Of the people in any set up of Govt. You are seeking happiness, true, By employing your senses In the modes of materialism, And you are not satisfied. It is true, you engage yourself In various philanthropic and Altruistic works and all fail to Give you satisfaction. It is happening only due to Your own childish innocence, You are by nature eternal servitor Of the people and you are Taking away everything from The common men like Dana Majhi, And knowingly and unknowingly Not providing the basic needs.
Take my dreams give them something I don't know It's just love inside this I'll have to show - have to show Everybody is doing something And I just know how to sing Love is sometimes crazy When it comes to me And my thoughts get hazy When they are set to be Questions asked never are What they sometimes seem Everything stays afar Like a delusional dream Don't ask me why - I can't tell you I don't have the answers There are no certainties to go to I often have a dream to feel my way But dreams don't live to become true I'll make decisions that are up to me And give the dreams I know I'll try to be what I can be In times that come and go Love is sometimes crazy When it comes to me And my thoughts get hazy When they are set to be Questions asked never are What they sometimes seem Everything stays afar Like a delusional dream Don't ask me why - Love is sometimes crazy I can't tell you any lie I can't tell you any lie Love is sometimes crazy When it comes to me And my thoughts get hazy When they are set to be Questions asked never are What they sometimes seem Everything stays afar Like a delusional dream Love is sometimes crazy But gives so much We are sometimes crazy And out of touch Sometimes crazy And out of touch *(I just thought I'd
Light breaks where no sun shines; Where no sea runs, the waters of the heart Push in their tides; And, broken ghosts with glowworms in their heads, The things of light File through the flesh where no flesh decks the bones. A candle in the thighs Warms youth and seed and burns the seeds of age; Where no seed stirs, The fruit of man unwrinkles in the stars, Bright as a fig; Where no wax is, the candle shows its hairs. Dawn breaks behind the eyes; From poles of skull and toe the windy blood Slides like a sea; Nor fenced, nor staked, the gushers of the sky Spout to the rod Divining in a smile the oil of tears. Night in the sockets rounds, Like some pitch moon, the limit of the globes; Day lights the bone; Where no cold is, the skinning gales unpin The winter's robes; The film of spring is hanging from the lids. Light breaks on secret lots, On tips of thought where thoughts smell in the rain; When logics die, The secret of the soil grows through the eye, And blood jumps in the sun; Above the waste allotments the dawn halts.
Varus drags me into his affairs out of the Forum, where I’m seen idling: to a little whore I immediately saw, not very inelegant, not unattractive, who, when we came there, met us with varied chatter, including, how might Bithynia stand now, what’s it like, and where might the benefit have been to me in cash. I told her what’s true, nothing at all, while neither the praetors nor their aides, return any the richer, especially since our Praetor, Memmius, the bugger, cared not a jot for his followers. ‘But surely,’ they said, you could have bought slaves they say are made for the litter there.’ I, so the girl might take me to be wealthy, said ‘no, for me things weren’t so bad, that coming across one bad province, I couldn’t buy eight good men.’ But I’d no one, neither here nor there, who might even raise to his shoulder the shattered foot of an old couch. At this she, like the shameless thing she was, said ‘I beg you, my dear Catullus, for the loan of them, just for a while: I’d like to be carried to Serap’s temple.’ ‘Wait’ I said to the girl, ‘what I just said was mine, isn’t actually in my possession: my friend Cinna, that’s Gaius, purchased the thing for himself. Whether they’re his or mine, what difference to me? I use them just as well as if I’d bought them myself. But you are quite tasteless, and annoying, you with whom no
OR, from that Sea of Time, Spray, blown by the wind--a double winrow-drift of weeds and shells; (O little shells, so curious-convolute! so limpid-cold and voiceless! Yet will you not, to the tympans of temples held, Murmurs and echoes still bring up--Eternity's music, faint and far, Wafted inland, sent from Atlantica's rim--strains for the Soul of the Prairies, Whisper'd reverberations--chords for the ear of the West, joyously sounding Your tidings old, yet ever new and untranslatable;) Infinitessimals out of my life, and many a life, (For not my life and years alone I give--all, all I give;) 10 These thoughts and Songs--waifs from the deep--here, cast high and dry, Wash'd on America's shores. Currents of starting a Continent new, Overtures sent to the solid out of the liquid, Fusion of ocean and land--tender and pensive waves, (Not safe and peaceful only--waves rous'd and ominous too. Out of the depths, the storm's abysms--Who knows whence? Death's waves, Raging over the vast, with many a broken spar and tatter'd sail.)
Nay, be you pardoner or cheat, Or cogger keen, or mumper shy, You'll burn your fingers at the feat, And howl like other folks that fry. All evil folks that love a lie! And where goes gain that greed amasses, By wile, and trick, and thievery? 'Tis all to taverns and to lasses! Rhyme, rail, dance, play the cymbals sweet, With game, and shame, and jollity, Go jigging through the field and street, With MYST'RY and MORALITY; Win gold at GLEEK,--and that will fly, Where all you gain at PASSAGE passes, - And that's? You know as well as I, 'Tis all to taverns and to lasses! Nay, forth from all such filth retreat, Go delve and ditch, in wet or dry, Turn groom, give horse and mule their meat, If you've no clerkly skill to ply; You'll gain enough, with husbandry, But--sow hempseed and such wild grasses, And where goes all you take thereby? - 'Tis all to taverns and to lasses! ENVOY. Your clothes, your hose, your broidery, Your linen that the snow surpasses, Or ere they're worn, off, off they fly, 'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
They tell me that euphoria is the feeling of feeling wonderful, well, today I feel euphorian, Today I have the agility of a Greek god and the appetitite of a Victorian. Yes, today I may even go forth without my galoshes, Today I am a swashbuckler, would anybody like me to buckle any swashes? This is my euphorian day, I will ring welkins and before anybody answers I will run away. I will tame me a caribou And bedeck it with marabou. I will pen me my memoirs. Ah youth, youth! What euphorian days them was! I wasn't much of a hand for the boudoirs, I was generally to be found where the food was. Does anybody want any flotsam? I've gotsam. Does anybody want any jetsam? I can getsam. I can play chopsticks on the Wurlitzer, I can speak Portuguese like a Berlitzer. I can don or doff my shoes without tying or untying the laces because I am wearing moccasins, And I practically know the difference between serums and antitoccasins. Kind people, don't think me purse-proud, don't set me down as vainglorious, I'm just a little euphorious.
This peach that I’ve just eaten, been graced by, been blessed by, been taught by, been transformed by… it’s as if some Messenger of the Gods had arrived, stopwatch in hand, saying, everything holds in perfection but a little moment - as William Shakespeare noted: so I’m going to arrange things so that as the stopwatch ticks out ten seconds to that moment, you’ll reach out your hand to the fruitbowl, take it, feel its yielding softness under velvet skin, cut it carefully twice through the poles, once equatorially… and as it falls apart, spear one segment; eat… this peach was full of what even Rilke could say no more than, peachness.. it was a living proof of Plato: its perfection taught me where essence meets experience, where actuality meets the ideal of peach; where a singular perfection speaks of all perfections; where perfection leaves from perfection, naught else but perfect… how could such a perfect thing have been invented by one who does not love? Who is not love? This peach is love itself, and I the worshipper must needs make of myself a living God to whom to kneel, to offer praise and gratitude for all perfection known.. this peach my teacher.
A car is a car If it can ride you nearby or far A car is a car When it gets you in time to the bar A car is a car When you are addressed as Madam or Sir But for some A car is not just a car It is a home After a daylight roam It is a home After a nightly roam Kind of like a homelessness Reoccurring syndrome Now give me any banger of a car I'll give it hotly showers of a sauna Play sweet tunes to it from a guitar By the time you watch me stand by it And pose with an exotic cigar Waiting to take you out to dinar You may even prefer it to a modernised jaguar You see, to me A car is just a car Be it in a new silver shining coat Or one decorated with tarnished scars The simple reality Is they all have similar Passenger capacity Whether be it a personalised 8 seater stretch limousine Or a Ferrari with an exploding roaring engine A car is a car A vehicle of motion A medium of transportation Even when it shows signs of erosion As long as it can move from junction to junction I personally sanction A car is just a car Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi www.sylviachidi.co.uk Che ck out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'
I was always late to the banquet, Or the fabled buffet ran out of food too soon. The bridesmaid shoes dyed hot pink, To match the dresses perfectly, pinched my feet; Mine were three or four sizes too small. But I had to wear them anyway because time, You see, was running out; and where else, do you think You would find that exotic shade of hot pink? The wedding seemed to go on for hours; And I had to stand still, in the front of the church, smiling As the shoes devoured first my feet and then my ankles- The cramping rose to a crescendo and never became less. Later, removing the offensive shoes forever, I knew that I would have no fancy wedding, With specially dyed shoes, to torture another girl- Because the clock would be ticking, And where could you get that exact hue? They never knew about my secret pain, And the much-vaunted marriage dissolved all too soon. But my feet miraculously remained unscarred, They showed no marks from the crippling effects of the shoes. It's strange how unbearable pain can leave no outward sign- Except in memory- where it will always remain That exquisite color, that is found nowhere else.
Pain produces perfect pearl For pearls are not just mineral Aphrodisiacal oysters Provide perfect pearls - pre-packaged! Inside their shells gently growing. The pearl symbolises - purity In love - in life - in liberty. Pain produces perfect pearl. Natural pearls are so spontaneous Growing slowly throughout lifetime Seven years inside the mollusk Gulfs of Persia - California Jordan - Mexico and Mannar Pearls of every size and colour White - silver - cream - green - black and blue Natual pearls are so spontaneous. Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June Fueling faithfulness and friendship Healing heads and hearts and hearing Bringing wearers nearer Heaven Twinned with Zodiac sign Gemini Channels the strength of Sister Moon Pulsating purifying power. Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June Polished pearls give perfect pleasure Pain produces perfect pearls Natural pearls are so spontaneous Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June. June Joyful grace pearls Birthstone Spontaneous so are pearls natural Pearls perfect produces pain Pleasure perfect give pearls polished. This poem is dedicated to a Polished Pearl. (John Knight - Cool Colchester - 23 January 2010)
As evening falls, And the yellow lights leap one by one Along high walls; And along black streets that glisten as if with rain, The muted city seems Like one in a restless sleep, who lies and dreams Of vague desires, and memories, and half-forgotten pain . . . Along dark veins, like lights the quick dreams run, Flash, are extinguished, flash again, To mingle and glow at last in the enormous brain And die away . . . As evening falls, A dream dissolves these insubstantial walls,— A myriad secretly gliding lights lie bare . . . The lovers rise, the harlot combs her hair, The dead man's face grows blue in the dizzy lamplight, The watchman climbs the stair . . . The bank defaulter leers at a chaos of figures, And runs among them, and is beaten down; The sick man coughs and hears the chisels ringing; The tired clown Sees the enormous crowd, a million faces, Motionless in their places, Ready to laugh, and seize, and crush and tear . . . The dancer smooths her hair, Laces her golden slippers, and runs through the door To dance once more, Hearing swift music like an enchantment rise, Feeling the praise of a thousand eyes. As darkness falls The walls grow luminous and warm, the walls Tremble and glow with the lives within them moving, Moving like music, secret and rich and warm. How shall we live tonight? Where shall we turn? To what new light or
We have to be careful with whatever we say as it might happen to us one day. I knew a fellow once who had a saying that entered into every conversation that he made. He would say quite loudly, well, stripe me pink. One day he woke up and found he was striped pink but the joker didn’t stop there, he gave him green and purple spots as well. He went to his doctor who was quite mystified with having a man come into his surgery with pink stripes and green and purple spots. He asked what he had been eating, nothing unusual the fellow replied. The doctor frowned feeling there was nothing he could do told him to go home and rest until it wore off. The days passed and a month went by but the stripes and spots remained. Off he trotted back to see the doctor again who shook his head saying there was nothing he could do as is looks like the stripes and the dots are permanent. The only suggest I can make is that you get clothes the very same colour then no one will ever know which is the clothes and which is you. So the next time you utter something ridiculous be careful what you are saying as you might end up wearing it until your dying day. 1 October 2009
A poem moves forward, Like the passages and percussions of trains in progress A pattern of recurrence, a hammer of repetetiveoccurrence a slow less and less heard low thunder under all passengers Steel sounds tripping and tripled and Grinding, revolving, gripping, turning, and returning as the flung carpet of the wide countryside spreads out on each side in billows And in isolation, rolled out, white house, red barn, squat silo, Pasture, hill, meadow and woodland pasture And the striped poles step fast past the train windows Second after second takes snapshots, clicking, Into the dangled boxes of glinting windows Snapshots and selections, rejections, at angles, of shadows A small town: a shop's sign - GARAGE, and then white gates Where waiting cars wait with the unrest of trembling Breathing hard and idling, until the slow~descent Of the red cones of sunset: a dead march: a slow tread and heavy Of the slowed horses of Apollo - Until the slowed horses of Apollo go over the horizon And all things are parked, slowly or willingly, into the customary or at random places.
A man of 19 looks for a quick way to die He gets on his knees and begins to cry out The Suicide Angel hears his pleading cries He knows the man will take his life without a doubt This angel banished from heaven, not wanted my hell A patient angel waiting for the next one Perhaps a mother or father praying to the dark angel Or perhaps a depressed daughter or a suicidal son An angel with wings of crimson red No halo for this fallen son of the most high His wings stained with blood from the dead As he poisons his victims hearts with devastating lies His heart is as black as charcoal His eyes dark blue as if he was dead He carries no burden of regret or a sole His lips as dark as his eyes upon his head You may wonder who this angel is If he is real or only in your nightmares Whether you’ll survive or feel his death kiss If he is real of is just another legend used to scare Would you believe me if I told you Who this angel could really be Would you call my statement false or true If I told you this suicide angel is me
Evening shower pours down heavily Rain water falls like a torrent, overflowing everywhere. The automatic night light just turned on outside my house. I stand inside the house, watching the western sky. Two cats lean on their stretched front legs. Their noses touch the house screen door. Their lungs are filled with inhaled rain mists. Suddenly, there arise loud croaks from a nearby Koi pond. Stimulated by heavy rain, this frog longs for a companion. He waited a long time without a croaking response. So sad a night for this frog who will spend his night alone. Rain shower falls, and falls without a pause. Who knows the sadness of a frog longing for a mate at my Koi pond? 10152014 NHIEN NGUYEN MD Translation of TIẾNG ẾCH ĐÊM MƯA - Poem by NHIEN NGUYEN MD Tối nay trời đổ mưa rào. Mưa như thác chảy, nước tràn khắp nơi. Đèn đêm đã sáng lên rồi Trong nhà tôi đứng, nhìn trời phía tây. Hai mèo ngồi chống hai chân Mũi sờ cửa lưới, phổi đầy hơi mưa. Hồ Koi, ếch bỗng kêu vang Trời đêm mưa lớn, ếch cần bạn thân. Chờ lâu, chẳng tiếng hồi âm Đêm nay buồn lắm, ếch này nằm không. Mưa rơi tầm tã, mưa rơi. Nỗi buồn ai hiểu, hồ Koi, ếch chờ... 10152014 NHIEN NGUYEN MD
In a moment it makes me romantic Remove all sadness and show to be fantastic The poems are made as my heaven The slight ideas get fine place even How words strike mind in quick succession? Form nice imagination with fast obsession Romance with female friends and bright moon light Oh, what a lovely desire to be expressed truly right Why those dark nights don’t frighten me? Why I touch all those stars and steal their twinkles in free? Create their impression of sadness in fine poetical words Feel so close to the almighty and spell it as holy from mouth of lords Is poetry a means to cut jokes? Cut some to size and unnecessarily poke Does it not involve greater degree of appreciation? I think it does and sometimes choke the throat and pronunciation I try to control with tears and bring smile in between But in fact it takes me to the extreme end and shows heaven I take deep stock of it and compare what I get by composing poems It is no less joy then what one gets from friends I see with deep sense of human touch Every time some incidence comes as such I move with great care and involve Rest ideas come in quickly and solve It is divine blessing that you can think and form relation An opinion about holy path, love or separation How come you think with great pain about such sensitive things? Unless you are gifted with invisible
In nineteen hundred twenty four, Because our father died, Our mother had to go to work, And swallow family pride. She had three youngsters then to raise; It was no easy task; For handout or for charity, She wouldn't ever ask. She paid her way, and theirs, as well, An everlasting grind: Example of the highest type That one could ever find. From typist to important jobs, Advancing all the way; Was dedicated to her work, And she was there to stay. She put herself through high school By attending class at night. Then evening college studies Would provide a future, bright. She taught us things like faith and hope, And, also, charity. And, in addition, we were shown, What's called: frugality. But, halfway through her college quest A major war was on. So, Navy was the uniform That she would neatly don. The years she worked in Government Would total forty two. And, after that, she settled back, With other things to do. She's owned her home for forty years, And now we help her stay there. We often go to visit her, And, now and then, we pray there. She helps her children even now; She's not like any other: One of a kind, perfectionist; A very special mother.
These are twelve rose buds in the bouquet I give to you. 1. This one is my Mind for it has learned that our two minds melding will provide light for our way. 2. This one is my Heart for there can be no courage without it, Faith its underpinning. 3. My Body here now unfolds for only you and under your touch it blooms. buffeted by that Innocence Betrothed which smothers the Cynical Twinge. 4. Our Future resides here curled up fetal-style because indeed our marriage is just beginning. 5. Home in this bulb making it our mutual effort flower. 6. This one is my shy steel Devotion which will not waver or fall. 7. Here is my wish for children who reflect what we seek to grow here. They are the earthly angels humans are allowed. 8-9 My Spirit and my Soul are these rose spheres which inhabit our aora these precious buds bring; and this last is the 10. Silver One which is my Love which opened its flower petal wings first with you taking my own breath away. Under your touch I, for the first time in my life bloomed reeling from the smell of rose-bud bouquets; of Tomorrows Futures and Yesterdays. These in the end are not mine to give but I merely pass them on to you and us in the way that Nature intends. From these are made true Weddings.
THE moments passed as at a play; I had the wisdom love brings forth; I had my share of mother-wit, And yet for all that I could say, And though I had her praise for it, A cloud blown from the cut-throat North Suddenly hid Love's moon away. Believing every word I said, I praised her body and her mind Till pride had made her eyes grow bright, And pleasure made her cheeks grow red, And vanity her footfall light, Yet we, for all that praise, could find Nothing but darkness overhead. We sat as silent as a stone, We knew, though she'd not said a word, That even the best of love must die, And had been savagely undone Were it not that Love upon the cry Of a most ridiculous little bird Tore from the clouds his marvellous moon. ALTHOUGH crowds gathered once if she but showed her face, And even old men's eyes grew dim, this hand alone, Like some last courtier at a gypsy camping-place Babbling of fallen majesty, records what's gone. These lineaments, a heart that laughter has made sweet, These, these remain, but I record what-s gone. A crowd Will gather, and not know it walks the very street Whereon a thing once walked that seemed a burning cloud
Underground, down in the dugout when during the second world war a siren wailed a last warning before the darkest pall... plunging; insecurity; screaming soon commenced higher; higher it seemed to climb human fear greeting the silence. As hunger gnawed at his belly a youngster decided to run away up out of the shelter in search of action and fun. Wow! It was just so exciting watching war planes in the night sky as the enemy passed over left behind, their lethal bye-bye's. Far better than the cinema! For these were Hitler's men! Pow! Pow! And were really up above... BOOM! With searchlights; chaos and mayhem. He could see Britain was fighting and his Dad was a soldier too but Mum was down in the dugout... from here; such a fantastic view! When they got back he'd be for it! Oh but couldn't care less right now when the bombing left off in a moment... get up, out on patrol. As hunger gnawed at his belly recalling the meal from last night; that cat was really quite tasty but what could they all eat tonight? Taking off into the distance with nothing to wear on his feet; perhaps the house was still upright people started to pass on the street. As hunger gnawed at his belly slowly turning to where he thought: Was it here our home had been standing? Must tell Mum we've been bombed out!
(For Kenton) An iron hand has stilled the throats That throbbed with loud and rhythmic glee And dammed the flood of silver notes That drenched the world in melody. The blosmy apple boughs are yearning For their wild choristers' returning, But no swift wings flash through the tree. Ye that were glad and fleet and strong, Shall Silence take you in her net? And shall Death quell that radiant song Whose echo thrills the meadow yet? Burst the frail web about you clinging And charm Death's cruel heart with singing Till with strange tears his eyes are wet. The scented morning of the year Is old and stale now ye are gone. No friendly songs the children hear Among the bushes on the lawn. When babies wander out a-Maying Will ye, their bards, afar be straying? Unhymned by you, what is the dawn? Nay, since ye loved ye cannot die. Above the stars is set your nest. Through Heaven's fields ye sing and fly And in the trees of Heaven rest. And little children in their dreaming Shall see your soft black plumage gleaming And smile, by your clear music blest.
And it was at that age ... Poetry arrived in search of me. I don't know, I don't know where it came from, from winter or a river. I don't know how or when, no they were not voices, they were not words, nor silence, but from a street I was summoned, from the branches of night, abruptly from the others, among violent fires or returning alone, there I was without a face and it touched me. I did not know what to say, my mouth had no way with names, my eyes were blind, and something started in my soul, fever or forgotten wings, and I made my own way, deciphering that fire, and I wrote the first faint line, faint, without substance, pure nonsense, pure wisdom of someone who knows nothing, and suddenly I saw the heavens unfastened and open, planets, palpitating plantations, shadow perforated, riddled with arrows, fire and flowers, the winding night, the universe. And I, infinitesimal being, drunk with the great starry void, likeness, image of mystery, felt myself a pure part of the abyss, I wheeled with the stars, my heart broke loose on the wind.
Snow began to fall at ten in the evening fine cold adamantine snow. On Atlantic I drove slowly, the streets being slippery, looking for a lady when I spotted Johnnie Mai so pulled up next to her and she hopped into the car and we drove to my apartment where she quickly stripped then made hot chocolate. “This is a nice place, Bernstein, sometimes I stay with Dempsey he’s forty and loves me but not my baby.” “Mary with your mother? ” I asked. Johnnie Mai sipped her hot chocolate slowly in silence eyes closed drifting into that private world where a soul’s history tumbled forever alone when suddenly she said, “Without my mama I’d be dead, also Mary.” Eyes open staring at me then: “I guess we should do it.” “That would be nice.” We walked to the bed the presence of her youthful and powerful body affected me deeply: My turn now to drift as her gracious passion warped warmth into me, so tender, almost true. “Now me cause I’m still a woman even though I take money.” Later she asked, “Can I stay? ” “OK, ” I said. Then in the tinkling of an eye she was asleep and I slid out of bed walked to the window raised the blinds to see in the distance Downstate Medical Center shimmering in the descending crystals where at this very moment most certainly death shaped a soul into a snowflake. I returned to Johnnie Mai her body still afire
When the day becomes hot and hazy And I become tired and lazy, All I can do is keep on reneging, For the vast lawn needs mowing, And the vegetable garden needs hoeing, And work must come before swimming. It seems that the grass has grown taller And I get an immediate urge to holler. Why can't I forget this awful dreaming, That I was always on the brink of sneezing, And constantly plagued with episodes of wheezing, Until soothing in the water with ease in breathing? The sun seems to quiver and know As I think of the old swimming hole, I rest my aching body and keep reneging, Of course my work I am not shirking, But it's just too hot and humid for working, It's about time to sneak out and go swimming. I notice the sun in the azure sky beaming And again I catch myself dreaming, As the perspiration continues dripping, But my tasks have me outsmarted, And I plod along slowly and half - hearted, Thinking of the old gang going dipping. I face reality and refrain from dreaming And seek relief from the humidity with meaning, And go to the swimming hole that is brimming. Life is too short to constantly worry, So why should I continue to be in a hurry? It's summer and a time for swimming.
there was once a girl I knew Her name was Cinderella But Cinderella is way too long We'll call her just Ella Ella was a spoilt kid Oh yes, she was She rather barks than talks not someone to cross Then Gloomy air Spread everywhere As her mother died with heart attack All relatives cried at the news Ella also did, but it was fake His father married again The lady had daughters of her own Beautiful they were, oh yes Names: Isabella and Sharon Our Cinderella was very jealous girls had taken her place, not one but two Ella wanted to take revenge From the girls, and their mother too! But before she could do anything The handsome prince called a ball All the maidens were invited It was to take place in the castle's hall Excitement arose everywhere Beautiful looked our Cinderella But her stepsisters were their too And their was no match for Isabella The prince walked in the room His eyes fell on Isabella He asked her for a dance And not our Cinderella Soon the news spread through the kingdom Prince and Isabella were to marry, no pretend But then something happened The prince chose Cinderella instead! on the marriage day, bells rang Ella and prince were coupled But prince looked so forlorn and sad As though he had just been crumpled And as the carriage went, people wondered What was it, that had dejected him But we know the truth, that Cinderella had a
'My age, my beast!' - Osip Mandelstam On the lips a taste of tolling we are blind The light drifts like dust over faces We wear masks on our genitals You've heard of lighting cigarettes with banknotes we used to light ours with Jews History is made of bricks you can't go through it And bricks are made of bones and blood and Bones and blood are made of little tiny circles that nothing can go through Except a piano with rabies Blood gushes into, not from, our wounds Vietnamese Cuban African bloods Constellations of sperm upon our bodies Drunk as dogs before our sons The bearded foetus lines up at the evolution-trough Swarmy bloods in the rabid piano The air over Chicago is death's monogram This is the Were-Age rushing past Speed: 10,000 men per minute This is the species bred of death The manshriek of flesh The lifeless sparks of flesh Covering the deep drums of vision O new era race-wars jugular-lightning Dark glance bursting from the over-ripe future Know we are not the smilelines of dreams Nor the pores of the Invisible Piano with rabies we are victorious over The drum and the wind-chime We bite back a voice that might have emerged To tame these dead bodies aid wet ashes
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? When I say you have the most handsome face? Why don’t believe me when I tell you I dream of it? When I say its your lines, with my finger, I trace? Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? When I say your smile lights up my day? Why don’t you believe me when I tell you its sexy? When I tell you how you smile my troubles away? Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? When I say you have the goldenest hair? Why don’t you believe me when I tell you it warms me? When I say how I sit and stare? Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? When I say you have the softest skin? Why don’t you believe me when I try to describe it? When I don’t even know where to begin? Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? When I genuinely tell you I love you? Why don’t you believe me when I tell you I need you? When I say this is all so new? Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing? Why do you suggest I lie? I hope you’ll soon believe me when I say you’re amazing, because I’ll say it till the day I die.
There was darkness under Heaven For an hour's space-- Darkness that we knew was given Us for special grace. Sun and noon and stars were hid, God had left His Throne, When Helen came to me, she did, Helen all alone! Side by side (because our fate Damned us ere our birth) We stole out of Limbo Gate Looking for the Earth. Hand in pulling hand amid Fear no dreams have known, Helen ran with me, she did, Helen all alone! When the Horror passing speech Hunted us along, Each laid hold on each, and each Found the other strong. In the teeth of Things forbid And Reason overthrown, Helen stood by me, she did, Helen all alone! When, at last, we heard those Fires Dull and die away, When, at last, our linked desires Dragged us up to day; When, at last, our souls were rid Of what that Night had shown, Helen passed from me, she did, Helen all alone! Let her go and find a mate, As I will find a bride, Knowing naught of Limbo Gate Or Who are penned inside. There is knowledge God forbid More than one should own. So Helen went from me, she did, Oh, my soul, be glad she did! Helen all alone!
Three years she grew in sun and shower, Then Nature said, "A lovelier flower On earth was never sown; This Child I to myself will take; She shall be mine, and I will make A Lady of my own. "Myself will to my darling be Both law and impulse: and with me The Girl, in rock and plain In earth and heaven, in glade and bower, Shall feel an overseeing power To kindle or restrain. "She shall be sportive as the fawn That wild with glee across the lawn Or up the mountain springs; And her's shall be the breathing balm, And her's the silence and the calm Of mute insensate things. "The floating clouds their state shall lend To her; for her the willow bend; Nor shall she fail to see Even in the motions of the Storm Grace that shall mold the Maiden's form By silent sympathy. "The stars of midnight shall be dear To her; and she shall lean her ear In many a secret place Where rivulets dance their wayward round, And beauty born of murmuring sound Shall pass into her face. "And vital feelings of delight Shall rear her form to stately height, Her virgin bosom swell; Such thoughts to Lucy I will give While she and I together live Here in this happy dell." Thus Nature spake---The work was done--- How soon my Lucy's race was run! She died, and left to me This heath, this calm, and quiet scene; The memory of what
★This Life This Life I Cannot Leave You Again ☆Luo Zhihai Lyrics and Translation Where did your form appear? On the golden seawall shone sunlight. Carrying a packsack and seeking for you. We were interesting to enjoy sunset and tide. Rain poured down and wind raged. Waves turned up and down and thunders from the sky. Sailing side by side I snuggled with you. Until pushing clouds and bringing to light. Where did your steps climb and cross? Jungle faint and mountain paths wound By your gun, a wild boar was shot. I caught up seeing that with my eyes. Forest over the thorns and moss. Wore enough clothes and opened your big eyes. Listened to birds singing saying goodbye. We were out of the jungle back to life. Looking for your footprints with my dream. Write our love in diaries at night. Singing with karaoke and MP4. Make love together in happy time. Enjoy games and dancing every day. Good mood, beautiful scene every day. No matter where you go long distances. This life this life I cannot leave you again. At 16: 00 on July 30,2010 to at 16: 00 on July 31 wrote & translated. ▲Chinese Text ★今生今世我再也离不开你 ☆罗志海歌词 你的身 影出现在哪里？ 阳光照耀金色的海堤 背上行襄兴冲冲寻找你 我们饶有趣味赏落日潮汐 天有不测风云飘泼大雨 海浪滔天翻滾雷打电劈 肩并肩扬帆我偎依着你 直到拨 开乌云重见天日 你的步履跋涉到哪里？ 丛林幽幽山路崎岖里 一只野猪撞上你 枪底 我匆匆赶上尽收眼里 林中遍布苔藓和荆棘 请穿够衣服小心脚底 听小鸟婉 转歌唱嘀哩哩 我们走出丛林重现生机 带上梦想我追寻你足迹 你情我爱通通写 进日记 一起唱卡拉OK听MP4 一起作爱我们一起happy 天天跳呀舞呀尽情游戏 天天好心情精彩又靓丽 不管你长途跋涉要去哪里 今生今世我再也离不开你 < br>2010年7月30日16: 00至7月31日16: 00作词翻译
"His Grace! impossible! what, dead! Of old age too, and in his bed! And could that mighty warrior fall, And so inglorious, after all? Well, since he's gone, no matter how, The last loud trump must wake him now; And, trust me, as the noise grows stronger, He'd wish to sleep a little longer. And could he be indeed so old As by the newspapers we're told? Threescore, I think, is pretty high; 'Twas time in conscience he should die! This world he cumber'd long enough; He burnt his candle to the snuff; And that's the reason, some folks think, He left behind so great a stink. Behold his funeral appears, Nor widows' sighs, nor orphans' tears, Wont at such times each heart to pierce, Attend the progress of his hearse. But what of that? his friends may say, He had those honours in his day. True to his profit and his pride, He made them weep before he died Come hither, all ye empty things! Ye bubbles rais'd by breath of kings! Who float upon the tide of state; Come hither, and behold your fate! Let pride be taught by this rebuke, How very mean a thing's a duke; From all his ill-got honours flung, Turn'd to that dirt from whence he sprung"
The depression of the 1930's was the time of my childhood days, There were a lot of worries and hardships in many ways. Whatever time people could spare, they would help each other out, Bad times also came when there was a draught. The depression of the 1930's our parents would help make quilts of all kinds, They would work long hours, day and night, it was alot on their minds. Fathers would work on the W.P.A. just to make ends meet, Breaking stones was very hard work, some of them fell to their feet. The depression of the 1930's there were problems about work, severe winters and war, People never know from day to day what may be in store, There were children of all ages, sick with an illness, Some of them passed away with the long nights of stillness. The depression of the 1930's made it bad for all ages, Work was scare, there was pay of low wages. During the depression, we all learned how to survive, A lot of people shared the hardships by showing love and being alive. The depression of the 1930's will be in my heart for the rest of my life, I, Margaret L. Hockenberry, now Margaret l. Rodkey lived in those hardships of struggle and strife My parents were loving and caring in every way, They taught me to respect people and show them we care.
FIVE-AND-TWENTY years have gone Since old William pollexfen Laid his strong bones down in death By his wife Elizabeth In the grey stone tomb he made. And after twenty years they laid In that tomb by him and her His son George, the astrologer; And Masons drove from miles away To scatter the Acacia spray Upon a melancholy man Who had ended where his breath began. Many a son and daughter lies Far from the customary skies, The Mall and Eades's grammar school, In London or in Liverpool; But where is laid the sailor John That so many lands had known, Quiet lands or unquiet seas Where the Indians trade or Japanese? He never found his rest ashore, Moping for one voyage more. Where have they laid the sailor John? And yesterday the youngest son, A humorous, unambitious man, Was buried near the astrologer, Yesterday in the tenth year Since he who had been contented long. A nobody in a great throng, Decided he would journey home, Now that his fiftieth year had come, And 'Mr. Alfred' be again Upon the lips of common men Who carried in their memory His childhood and his family. At all these death-beds women heard A visionary white sea-bird Lamenting that a man should die; And with that cry I have raised my cry.
Thou lingering star, with less'ning ray, That lov'st to greet the early morn, Again thou usherast in the day My Mary from my soul was torn. O Mary, dear departed shade Where is thy place of blissful rest? See'st thou thy lover lowly laid? Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast? That sacred hour can I forget? Can I forget the hallow'd grove Where, by the winding Ayr, we met, To live one day of parting love? Eternity cannot efface Those records dear of transports past, Thy image at our last embrace--- Ah! little thought we 'twas our last! Ayr, gurgling, kiss'd his pebbled shore, O'erhung with wild-woods, thickening green; The fragrant birch and hawthorn hoar, Twin'd amorous round the raptur'd scene; The flowers sprang wanton to be prest The birds sang love on every spray Till too, too soon, the glowing west, Proclaim'd the speed of winged day. Still o'er these scenes my mem'ry wakes, And fondly broods with miser-care; Time but th' impression stronger makes, As streams their channels deeper wear. O Mary! dear departed shade! Where is thy place of blissful rest? See'st thou thy lover lowly laid? Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast?
I attended the funeral of your dear one. I heard your loud sobbing and screaming As the coffin of your deceased husband was carried out from the church aisle. The black limousine was waiting outside The caretaker looked at his watch Each one picked up a white rose and laid it on the coffin of your dear one. Still the undertaker looked at you and waited; You held on to the coffin and would not Let the limousine drive off your husband- to the burning heat of the crematorium. The undertaker started the engine You stood still sobbing, speaking and moaning You drowned your heart in anguish so deep But the funeral service should be culminated. And the coffin was taken away by that black limousine With a weak voice, you called, “Please come back”. And you continued to sob without let up The sting of death crushed your heart. And there you stood with the presence and comfort of your family and friends No longer alone or bereft in the world You were surrounded by those who wept with you, who stood beside you, waiting when your anguish could subside. ______________________ Funeral of Frannie’s husband, September 5,2015
Soon I’ll be transported to the sky, to be with my Lord way up high. I will be lifted up into the clouds, to join the many victorious crowds. And together we’ll see the face, of Christ who led us by His Grace. On that day and that special hour, we’ll be changed by His Power. Friend, this is what’s ahead for me, and all on their way to Eternity. This is the Hope I have in Christ, which goes beyond temporal life, He’s gone to prepare a place for us, and in His words I put my trust. Christ’s coming back again for me, so that where He is I too can be. We do not know what lies ahead, but, we know what Christ had said. So be not anxious my dear friend, for this life on earth is not the end. Soon will come great devastation; for all waiting He brings Salvation. Jesus is our Blessed Hope my friend; He’s a brighter path to the end. In Christ we’re on a different path; we weren’t saved to suffer wrath, Saved by Christ’s Gracious Love, to live with Him forever up above. When we hear that trumpet sound, all the Saints shall gather round, Jesus Christ the Eternal King, and together hear the Heavens sing. My friend, in the twinkling of an eye, we’ll be with The Lord on high, Changed to be just like The Lord, with new bodies that will endure, Eternity with our Lord Jesus
A soldier was ordered into battle to face the foe, His mind devoid of sensation - his body numb, And his rifle fixed with a bayonet in front of him, Charged the rampart hoping the conflict is won. His fate is dependent upon the success of the mission, The mark of death had been cast upon his head, Severely wounded by an unrelenting hostility On the battlefield where his body profusely bled No more transitory orders - no more fighting, No longer can be heard the eerie sound of artillery, Only a mumbling of words - crying out in pain, Hallucinating of love ones vague and dreary. Shortly he will succumb from his ghastly wounds In a hostile and foreign land across the vast sea. Though he is dead - his spirit will live on forever, His body to be buried in his hometown's cemetery. The sound of TAPS on a bugle is heard nearby, Symbolic of death for his country with the highest laud. The Chaplain says a final prayer- many tears are shed As the soldier's body is laid to rest beneath the sod. An important question is still to be answered, ' Why was this soldier chosen to die on foreign soil? '
OF him I love day and night, I dream'd I heard he was dead; And I dream'd I went where they had buried him I love--but he was not in that place; And I dream'd I wander'd, searching among burial-places, to find him; And I found that every place was a burial-place; The houses full of life were equally full of death, (this house is now;) The streets, the shipping, the places of amusement, the Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, the Mannahatta, were as full of the dead as of the living, And fuller, O vastly fuller, of the dead than of the living; --And what I dream'd I will henceforth tell to every person and age, And I stand henceforth bound to what I dream'd; And now I am willing to disregard burial-places, and dispense with them; 10 And if the memorials of the dead were put up indifferently everywhere, even in the room where I eat or sleep, I should be satisfied; And if the corpse of any one I love, or if my own corpse, be duly render'd to powder, and pour'd in the sea, I shall be satisfied; Or if it be distributed to the winds, I shall be satisfied.
AH! leave the smoke, the wealth, the roar Of London, leave the bustling street, For still, by the Sicilian shore, The murmur of the Muse is sweet. Still, still, the suns of summer greet The mountain-grave of Helike, And shepherds still their songs repeat Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea. What though they worship Pan no more That guarded once the shepherd’s seat, They chatter of their rustic lore, They watch the wind among the wheat: Cicalas chirp, the young lambs bleat, Where whispers pine to cypress tree; They count the waves that idly beat, Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea. Theocritus! thou canst restore The pleasant years, and over-fleet; With thee we live as men of yore, We rest where running waters meet: And then we turn unwilling feet And seek the world—so must it be— We may not linger in the heat Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea! ENVOY Master,—when rain, and snow, and sleet And northern winds are wild, to thee We come, we rest in thy retreat, Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea!
One lump or two? Ma'am….your coffee? One lump or two? Such an innocent question uttered hundreds of times in tea rooms, coffee houses, restaurants, airplanes. Today, those words had the power to bring her to her knees. No amount of chamomile or honey capable of soothing her pain. She was drowning in a sea of sorrow, fearful of what tomorrow would bring. How could she face this new reflection, scarred, disfigured? What would she see reflecting in his eyes? He said he would always love her, no matter what. He said she would always be beautiful to him, but this....this isn't what crosses your mind, vowing in sickness and health. Each day she'll carry on, with a stiff upper lip and pink ribbons in her hair, stuffing the prosthetic into her bra, no longer adorned with sheer lace. She'll march with an army of women. She's grateful to be among the living, a survivor as she's now known.But she misses her curves, even if sometimes they sagged.She misses the tingling of her nipples when her husband held her in his arms.She misses feeling like a woman. She misses feeling whole. Ma'am? One lump or two? She replied, Oh, No Thank You. No lumps for me. {First published in Wait a Minute, I Have to Take Off My Bra! by Inkspotter Publishing, Canada 2011}
I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle. Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in it after all, a place for the genuine. Hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate, hair that can rise if it must, these things are important not because a high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are useful. When they become so derivative as to become unintelligible, the same thing may be said for all of us, that we do not admire what we cannot understand: the bat holding on upside down or in quest of something to eat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wolf under a tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that feels a flea, the base- ball fan, the statistician-- nor is it valid to discriminate against 'business documents and school-books'; all these phenomena are important. One must make a distinction however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the result is not poetry, nor till the poets among us can be 'literalists of the imagination'--above insolence and triviality and can present for inspection, 'imaginary gardens with real toads in them', shall we have it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand, the raw material of poetry in all its rawness and that which is on the other hand genuine, you are interested in poetry.
Year's end is swiftly encroaching, Leaving the present year behind, The New Year is fast approaching, The goals we sought, did we find? Were we satisfied with mediocrity? Did we strive for so much less? Did we flaunt an air of superiority? Did we make of ourselves a pitiable mess? The time is coming for a new resolution The New Year offers new promise and hope We plead with God for His absolution And trust in His mercy to help us cope. Starting afresh, let us begin the New Year By recalling His Tenets and His Law Remembering that He is always near Ready to catch us if and when we fall. Seas may rage and oceans may heave And fall we shall ~ but do not always fear it For Jesus told us that He will never leave Through the Power of His Holy Spirit. Spiritual things are seen and unseen It is within the soul we come to know it; In evaluating our walk we see where we've been Growing in holiness ~ or ~ wallowing in sin Forgiveness is needed without a doubt And when it is given we want to shout for and with Joy and Peace and Love All Blessings from God above! Joy and Peace and Love! ! Joy and Peace and Love! ! ! Let's begin the New Year with renewed JOY and PEACE and LOVE
Why didn’t she respond to call? Was she really facing the wall? Wanted to move out and roll the ball? Was I judging it as flicker or miscall? It was definitely welcome and invite, Sure suggestion for passion to ignite, Was I indication for call in dark night? I was amused but it was alright, I jumped two steps at a time, Forgot what was the interest prime, Surely can’t afford to loose the opportunity, Everything can wait but not the girl with beauty, She looked as if fairy came on land, I wondered whether I can move hand in hand, She was not ready yet to become friend, Then why did she waved at as signal send, I was moving in and out, I did not feel victory but a rout, Ready to move with laws flout, Knew nothing what was it all about? Where to go and whom to ask? Seemed to me a difficult task, Rushed to a friend for simple advice, He too was same as I was novice, I remembered saying” nothing is unfair” Most valuable and treasured gift is love affair, I thought it as simple and fair, Fragrance spread and filled the air, She represented dark as night, Her thoughts were not good and right, She embraced me with invitation to ride, I was shocked and emotions couldn’t hide, She was whore and I took her as right, Difficult to come out without fight, I rushed from the scene and left the sight,
for my mother I am clueless how brave you are while conceiving me as mysterious infinitesimal cell at first floating inside your excruciating underwater womb waiting patiently the approaching 12th day of December 1979 and the upcoming fearful twin of all birth - the tragic death I can't imagine the motherly sacrifice the pain upon laboring me as your first-born child, mixed with excitement and worries grasping in your nerves when you're about to wean my breathing away from your lungs by letting me to breath independently striving on my own Then you hear my baby cry with initial innocent tears welcoming the dramatic weeping years ahead as if a loud scream of cowardice as if a pre-visualization the encumbrance of well-manifested, approach-avoidance mundane journey the unavoidable path of all mortals and it all begin in disperate home our inherent home eventually becomes my self-evaluated penitence home where once you lived seemingly alone Your sacrifices become mine as we begin to conjoin the sorrows the springboard of our pensive tears of sufferings of hardships forcibly push me up prematurely to combat against hard-to-bear emotional upheavals I never complain that I should be aborted while clinging obliviously in an umbilical cord nor aspiring to be a murdered fetus thru unintentional justifiable miscarriage I never grief about my placental fate as i regret not that you are my mother This is my existence I believe in creation as pro-life advocate no need to question Creator's omnipotent hand the oxygen-provider, the life giver
As when the Paschal week is o'er, Sleeps in the silent aisles no more The breath of sacred song, But by the rising Saviour's light Awakened soars in airy flight, Or deepening rolls along; The while round altar, niche, and shrine, The funeral evergreens entwine, And a dark brilliance cast, The brighter for their hues of gloom, Tokens of Him, who through the tomb Into high glory passed: Such were the lights and such the strains. When proudly streamed o'er ocean plains Our own returning Cross; For with that triumph seemed to float Far on the breeze one dirge-like note Of orphanhood and loss. Father and King, oh where art thou? A greener wreath adorns thy brow, And clearer rays surround; O, for one hour of prayer like thine, To plead before th' all-ruling shrine For Britain lost and found! And he, whose mild persuasive voice Taught us in trials to rejoice, Most like a faithful dove, That by some ruined homestead builds, And pours to the forsaken fields His wonted lay of love: Why comes he not to bear his part, To lift and guide th' exulting heart? - A hand that cannot spars Lies heavy on his gentle breast: We wish him health; he sighs for rest, And Heaven accepts the prayer. Yes, go in peace, dear placid spright, Ill spared; but would we store aright Thy serious sweet farewell, We need not grudge thee to the skies, Sure after thee in time to rise, With thee for
I know I have the answers I’m sure I have the cure Immaculate cars, pretty dancers That will thrill you right to the core All your dreams will be fulfilled And you’ll have friends, where you go No matter how plain or unskilled You will be the star of the show It’ll take just a bit of money Just like the sweetest drops of honey Just a little bit of money Money, money, money, money You want some respect You just like to feel revered You want some loving aspect You want to know that someone cared You’ll find plenty of sycophants Catering to your every desire A menagerie of madness not by chance Beckoning you ever closer to the fire All it takes is just a bit of money Just like the sweetest drops of honey Just a little bit of money Money, money, money, money You say you want to run this world Puppet Master, part gambler too? All the riches you will soon unfurl Wall Street and banker are you You can climb this hill so much faster By making greater the ranks of the poor Profiting mightily from their disaster After all what are useless eaters for? All it takes is just a bit of money Just like the sweetest drops of honey Just a little bit of money Money, money, money, money
Always in my mind I can see my daddy's face As he took me in his arms Enveloped me with his embrace Daddy always held my hand With that great big hand of his Said, I was his little princess Go ahead a make a wish Many times I would fall down And skin my knees He would always come running Oh, baby, let me see! He told me when I grew up I would be somebodies queen But for now his little girl The most prettiest he's ever seen I would set in my daddy's lap I felt I was on a thrown Not knowing oh, to soon I would be almost grown My daddy's my hero Someone I want to be When I grow up daddy I'll make you proud of me I guess I'll always be That little girl that needs her dad I'll treasure every moment Every memory that we have Time can be so unkind Live today but a memory tomorrow I just want to stay daddy's little girl If time we could only borrow Memories flood my mind Just like I was ten Daddy can you play a game with me He gently takes my chin You'll always be my little girl If only in our minds Daddy, daddy you can't catch me Your it, It's your turn to hide Daddy's are a gift from God Made especially for little girls I love you so much daddy You are my great big world
When its late at night And I am all alone I look up at the sky And remember you are gone Gone from this place Where I am at now Gone to a place That I disavow It’s hot and sandy I never want to go It’s far and distant I will never fully know When I get a call Few and far between You have to watch what you say For reasons left unseen I don’t know what you’re doing Or where you are at. I don’t know who your with Are you somewhere in combat? I want you here with me I want you by my side I want you for my self This feeling I will not hide There is so much you are missing With our little girl You’ve never even seen Her cute little curl Somewhere in Iraq Fighting in their war Is my loving husband Of whom I most adore Months go by Time fades away My love grows stronger Each and everyday My husband, my soldier My hero, my friend I love you right now I love you till the end Before we even know it You will be home In this place together We will forever roam My husband, my soldier My hero, my friend You and me together Our love will transcend DEDICATED TO SGT DAVID LANE, IRAQ 05-06. June 27,2006
Alas! Now o'er Britannia there hangs a gloom, Because over 400 British Tars have met with a watery tomb; Who served aboard the " Victoria," the biggest ship in the navy, And one of the finest battleships that ever sailed the sea. And commanded by Sir George Tyron, a noble hero bold, And his name on his tombstone should be written in letters of gold; For he was skilful in naval tactics, few men could with him cope, And he was considered to be the nation's hope. 'Twas on Thursday, the twenty-second of June, And off the coast of Syria, and in the afternoon, And in the year of our Lord eighteen ninety-three, That the ill-fated "Victoria" sank to the bottom of the sea. The "Victoria" sank in fifteen minutes after she was rammed, In eighty fathoms of water, which was smoothly calmed; The monster war vessel capsized bottom uppermost, And, alas, lies buried in the sea totally lost. The "Victoria" was the flagship of the Mediterranean Fleet, And was struck by the "Camperdown" when too close they did meet, While practising the naval and useful art of war, How to wheel and discharge their shot at the enemy afar. Oh, Heaven ! Methinks I see some men lying in their beds, And some skylarking, no doubt, and not a soul dreads The coming avalanche that was to seal their doom, Until down came the mighty fabric of the engine room. Then death leaped on them from all quarters in
It's funny how time slips away On those long summer nights, I had sat down at my balcony, I had gazed at the stars, I had cried all night, I had cried tears` of 'Good -bye': But I had to keep on going without your love Living my life the way I choose to Discovering the things that are left for me to do Doing the things that I love Let there be light Don't give excuses Don't wait for answers Don't wait for tomorrow Don't ask me why No need to be angry anymore No need to wait anymore For this special day, special hour, No need to fight, just follow him, because The Lord has come to set you free The Lord has come to take you home A place with no more pain and sorrows Where you will find comfort and peace Maybe someday, you will meet me again A time has come to say” Good-bye' I'll remember you in my dreams I'll remember you in my sleep I'll remember you each day and every hour of the day I'll remember you for all the good things you have done for me I'll remember you for the special time we spent together. I'll remember you in my prayers I'll remember you for the kind of person you were I'll remember you every night I'll remember you for your special smiles and laughter I'll remember you
Beautiful Rothesay, your scenery is most grand, You cannot be surpassed in fair Scotland. Tis healthy for holiday makers, to go there, For the benefit of their health, by inhaling the pure air And to hear the innocent birds, on a fine Summer day, Carolling their sweet songs, so lively and gay, Therefore, holiday makers, be advised by me, And visit beautiful Rothesay, by the side of the Sea. Then sweet Jessie, let us go, To Scotland's garden of Eden O! And spend the lovely Summer day, In the beautiful village of Rothesay. There you can see the ships, passing to and fro, Which will drive away dull care, and woe, And, the heavens breath smells wooingly there, Therefore, let's away dear Jessie, to inhale the balmy air. The mansions, there, are most beautiful to be seen, Likewise the trees, and shrubberies, green. Therefore, we will feel happy and gay, Walking hand in hand, together the live long day. Along the beautiful walks with our hearts fu' cheerie, My dear love! Until we grow weary. Then, return home at night, with our spirits light and gay, After viewing the beautiful scenery of Rothesay.
Ten years ago he was a hero a parade for him in the Town But now he is seen as a has been they built him up and dragged him down Where are they now when he most needs them him they no longer wish to know He now is one of the forgotten their hero of a decade ago. When he kicked the winning goal in the final he done himself and the club proud The band played for him in his Hometown and the cheering for him it was loud Alcohol now is the only comfort of a man who was a sporting king His glory days for him are over his praises they no longer sing. Some of him say he once was a hero his brown hair is now turning gray And though only in his mid thirties he has known a far better day In his honour they had big parties to him their toasting glasses they did raise But now they have another hero another one that they can praise. Ten years ago he was a hero when he was in his glorious prime The Town Councillors sung his praises and the poets by him inspired to rhyme The goal he kicked for his Club in the final happened to be the winning score But now he is Yesteryear's hero though he is only thirty four
Suppose the Greeks were right – that, though some of us may seek to climb Olympus (the rocky scramble exhilarating in the moist fresh morning, the scent of coffee, baking bread, rising from the valley below, the occasional shout of shepherd to his dog, up higher, the tiptilt goats surprised, and then the mist, the thinning air, the inner urge, ambition fading, as humility, surrender, grow) that all of us, fully although seemingly in some degree, yearn for the True, the Good, the Beautiful, perhaps not in that order, or at least at first, and believing or not believing that ultimately, we may know the state when in their glory, all these three might merge, be indistinguishable; for this, no climb is needed, since the gods - the Greeks were sure of this - dwell ever in our hearts; at rest, but waiting for their call, or ours, to show us to ourselves, and bursting forth in what we recognise as enthusiasm.. but for those who love to climb, who love the view, the upper air, the risk, the challenge and the sport - the topmost crags surmounted, the scree no longer playing its game of snakes and ladders with our feet and hearts and minds, the clouds like a white, concealing mystery, now below us; the gods invisible to ground level eyes run eagerly to greet us in our hearts; we now pure oxygen for the others still visible through breaks in the white clouds of poetry, climbing on
All night the dreadless Angel, unpursued, Through Heaven's wide champain held his way; till Morn, Waked by the circling Hours, with rosy hand Unbarred the gates of light. There is a cave Within the mount of God, fast by his throne, Where light and darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge by turns, which makes through Heaven Grateful vicissitude, like day and night; Light issues forth, and at the other door Obsequious darkness enters, till her hour To veil the Heaven, though darkness there might well Seem twilight here: And now went forth the Morn Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold Empyreal; from before her vanished Night, Shot through with orient beams; when all the plain Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright, Chariots, and flaming arms, and fiery steeds, Reflecting blaze on blaze, first met his view: War he perceived, war in procinct; and found Already known what he for news had thought To have reported: Gladly then he mixed Among those friendly Powers, who him received With joy and acclamations loud, that one, That of so many myriads fallen, yet one Returned not lost. On to the sacred hill They led him high applauded, and present Before the seat supreme; from whence a voice, From midst a golden cloud, thus mild was heard. Servant of God. Well done; well hast thou fought The better fight, who single hast maintained Against revolted multitudes the cause Of truth, in word mightier than they in arms; And for the testimony
I was a 20 year old unemployed receptionist with dyed orange dreadlocks sprouting out of my skull. I needed a job, but first, I needed a haircut. So I head for this beauty salon on Avenue B. I'm gonna get a hairdo. I'm gonna look just like those hot Spanish haircut models, become brown and bodacious, grow some 7 inch fingernails painted bitch red and rake them down the chalkboard of the job market's soul. So I go in the beauty salon. This beautiful Puerto Rican girl in tight white spandex and a push-up bra sits me down and starts chopping my hair: "Girlfriend," she says, "what the hell you got growing outta your head there, what is that, hair implants? Yuck, you want me to touch that shit, whadya got in there, sandwiches?" I just go: "I'm sorry." She starts snipping my carefully cultivated Johnny Lydon post-Pistols hairdo. My foul little dreadlocks are flying around all over the place but I'm not looking in the mirror cause I just don't want to know. "So what's your name anyway?" My stylist demands then. "Uh, Maggie." "Maggie? Well, that's an okay name, but my name is Suzy." "Yeah, so?" "Yeah so it ain't just Suzy S.U.Z.Y, I spell it S.U.Z.E.E, the extra "e" is for extra Suzee." I nod emphatically. Suzee tells me when she's not busy chopping hair, she works as an exotic dancer at night to support her boyfriend named Rocco. Suzee loves Rocco, she loves him so much
What is the difference in being all alone over here by my self Or all alone over there with people who don’t care And could careless if I was there with them Watching Waiting Not being spoken too Waiting for the right moment to speak Sneak a peak of what its like on the inside I am all alone where ever I go Whether I am alone in a room full of people Or an empty field all by my self I feel the feeling of wanting Need and striving to be with you With someone Anyone at all But I can’t I am all ways alone In the cold On my own Whether it be in a crowed room Or in a field all of my own I am all alone What is the true difference between being alone on my own Or with people who don’t care It doesn’t matter anyways Why make a false invite and Try to be polite When you just turn me away I am alone whether it be in a room crowded with people Or alone in an empty field With no one around to hear me scream and bleed and cry What really is the difference between Being alone with a crowd of people who don’t care And being all alone over there. Alone on a bench to cry
With musing mind I watch thee steal Above those envious clouds that hid Till now thy face; thou dost reveal More than the glaring sunlight did; So round me would I have thy light In one broad sea of beauty lie, And who, while thou dost rule the night, For day would sigh, Nor long for wings that he might flee To find thy hidden face and ride the dark with thee? And hence it was that ever forth My fancy doated more and more Upon the wild poetic worth Of that old tale in Grecian lore, Which to the head of Latmos gave Supernal glories, passion-won By him who, in the mystic cave— Endymion— Was wont to meet thee night by night, And drink into his soul the spirit of thy light. Not thus it was thy beauty shone In these drear summers lately past; Disheartened, world-distrusting, lone, I shuddered in misfortune’s blast! Many that loved me, once were nigh Of whom now these I may not trust, And those forget me—or they lie Dark in the dust! And never can we meet again, Loving and loved as then, beneath thy friendly reign. O Cynthia! It would even seem That portions from our spirits fell, Like scent from flowers, throughout life’s dream; And by that clue invisible, A gathered after-scene of all Affection builded high in vain, Is drawn thus in dim funeral Past us again; The which, where shadowed most with gloom, Uncertain thought is fain to map
My mommy told me an' the teacher told me, too, There's all kinds of work that I can do: Dry my dishes, sweep my floor, But if we all work together it won't take very long. We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle, We all work together with a giggle and a grin. We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle, We all work together with a giggle and a grin. My sister told me, Brother told me, too, Lots an' lotsa work That I can do. I can bring her candy. Bring him gum. But if we all work together Hadn't oughtta take long. So My daddy said, And my grandpaw, too, There's work, worka, work For me to do. I can paint my fence. Mow my lawn. But if we all work together, Well, it shouldn't take long. So I tell Mama an' Daddy, Grampaw an' Granmaw, too, I tell my sister an' my brother, Lotsa work for you to do. You can bring me pennie And candy and gum; But if we all work together 'Twon't take so very long. And so We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle, We all work together with a giggle and a grin. We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle, We all work together with a giggle and a grin. With a wiggle and a giggle and a google and a goggle And a jigger and a jagger and a
God of love, whose truth and grace Reach unbounded as the skies, Hear thy creature's feeble praise, Let my ev'ning sacrifice Mount as incense to thy throne, On the merits of thy Son. Me thy providence has led Through another busy day: Over me thy wings were spread, Chasing sin and death away: Thou hast been my faithful shield, Thou my footsteps hast upheld. Tho' the sable veil of night Hides the cheering face of heav'n, Let me triumph in the sight Of my guilt in thee forgiv'n. In my heart the witness feel, See the great invisible. I will lay me down to sleep, Sweetly take my rest in thee, Ev'ry moment brought a step Nearer to eternity: I shall soon from earth ascend, Quickly reach my journey's end. All my sins imputed were To my dear, incarnate God; Bury'd in his grave they are, Drown'd in his atoning blood: Me thou wilt not now condemn, Righteous and complete in him. In the Saviour's right I claim All the blessings he hath bought; For my soul the dying Lamb Hath a full redemption wrought; Heaven through his desert is mine; Christ's I am, and Christ is mine!
I turn around on the gravel and go back to the house for a book, something to read at the doctor’s office, and while I am inside, running the finger of inquisition along a shelf, another me that did not bother to go back to the house for a book heads out on his own, rolls down the driveway, and swings left toward town, a ghost in his ghost car, another knot in the string of time, a good three minutes ahead of me— a spacing that will now continue for the rest of my life. Sometimes I think I see him a few people in front of me on a line or getting up from a table to leave the restaurant just before I do, slipping into his coat on the way out the door. But there is no catching him, no way to slow him down and put us back in synch, unless one day he decides to go back to the house for something, but I cannot imagine for the life of me what that might be. He is out there always before me, blazing my trail, invisible scout, hound that pulls me along, shade I am doomed to follow, my perfect double, only bumped an inch into the future, and not nearly as well-versed as I in the love poems of Ovid— I who went back to the house that fateful winter morning and got the book.
This poem was written by a terminally ill young girl in a New York Hospital. It was sent by a doctor - * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Have you ever watched kids On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don't dance so fast. Time is short. The music won't last. Do you run through each day On the fly? When you ask How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done Do you lie in your bed With the next hundred chores Running through your head? You'd better slow down Don't dance so fast. Time is short. The music won't last. Ever told your child, We'll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die Cause you never had time To call and say hi You'd better slow down. Don't dance so fast. Time is short. The music won't last. When you run so fast to get somewhere You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift.... Thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower Hear the music Before the song is over.
Death! that struck when I was most confiding In my certain faith of joy to be - Strike again, Time's withered branch dividing From the fresh root of Eternity! Leaves, upon Time's branch, were growing brightly, Full of sap, and full of silver dew; Birds beneath its shelter gathered nightly; Daily round its flowers the wild bees flew. Sorrow passed, and plucked the golden blossom; Guilt stripped off the foliage in its pride; But, within its parent's kindly bosom, Flowed for ever Life's restoring-tide. Little mourned I for the parted gladness, For the vacant nest and silent song - Hope was there, and laughed me out of sadness; Whispering, ' Winter will not linger long!' And, behold! with tenfold increase blessing, Spring adorned the beauty-burdened spray; Wind and rain and fervent heat, caressing, Lavished glory on that second May! High it rose - no winged grief could sweep it; Sin was scared to distance with its shine; Love, and its own life, had power to keep it From all wrong - from every blight but thine! Cruel Death! The young leaves droop and languish; Evening's gentle air may still restore - No! the morning sunshine mocks my anguish - Time, for me, must never blossom more! Strike it down, that other boughs may flourish Where that perished sapling used to be; Thus, at least, its mouldering corpse will nourish That from which it sprung - Eternity.
It is a natural fact of life that we human beings believe in one thing or another – either tangible or intangible The belief system of individual is sometimes determined by parental heritage, place of birth, religion and societal values We all grow up believing in many things our parents believe in By the time we finish high school, our belief system transforms The transformation occurs through our perception of the society as influenced by our daily contact with classmates and neighbors By the time we graduate from colleges and universities Our belief system metamorphosed to a new level through our interactions and relationships with the society What do you really believe? It is a known fact that many people believe in a Supreme Being Different names are attributed to this Supreme Being The name varies from one geographical location to another The name also differs from one religion to another To several people, the Supreme Being in known as God To many mystics, the Supreme Being is called Universal Intelligence What do you really believe? Numerous people believe it is allright to eat all kinds of foods While some believe it is wrong to eat animals and animal products These people called vegans say that all animals are our friends Therefore, nobody has the right to slaughter their friends for food What do you really believe? Almost everybody believe in the power of money to solve all their problems and end their difficulties Some say, even if money cannot
Sur cette place je m'ennuie, Obélisque dépareillé ; Neige, givre, bruine et pluie Glacent mon flanc déjà rouillé ; Et ma vieille aiguille, rougie Aux fournaises d'un ciel de feu, Prend des pâleurs de nostalgie Dans cet air qui n'est jamais bleu. Devant les colosses moroses Et les pylônes de Luxor, Près de mon frère aux teintes roses Que ne suis-je debout encor, Plongeant dans l'azur immuable Mon pyramidion vermeil Et de mon ombre, sur le sable, Écrivant les pas du soleil ! Rhamsès, un jour mon bloc superbe, Où l'éternité s'ébréchait, Roula fauché comme un brin d'herbe, Et Paris s'en fit un hochet. La sentinelle granitique, Gardienne des énormités, Se dresse entre un faux temple antique Et la chambre des députés. Sur l'échafaud de Louis seize, Monolithe au sens aboli, On a mis mon secret, qui pèse Le poids de cinq mille ans d'oubli. Les moineaux francs souillent ma tête, Où s'abattaient dans leur essor L'ibis rose et le gypaëte Au blanc plumage, aux serres d'or. La Seine, noir égout des rues, Fleuve immonde fait de ruisseaux, Salit mon pied, que dans ses crues Baisait le Nil, père des eaux, Le Nil, géant à barbe blanche Coiffé de lotus et de joncs, Versant de son urne qui penche Des crocodiles pour goujons ! Les chars d'or étoilés de nacre Des grands pharaons d'autrefois Rasaient mon bloc heurté du fiacre Emportant le dernier des rois. Jadis, devant ma pierre antique, Le pschent au front, les prêtres saints Promenaient la bari
Pavement slipp'ry, people sneezing, Lords in ermine, beggars freezing ; Titled gluttons dainties carving, Genius in a garret starving. Lofty mansions, warm and spacious ; Courtiers clinging and voracious ; Misers scarce the wretched heeding ; Gallant soldiers fighting, bleeding. Wives who laugh at passive spouses ; Theatres, and meeting-houses ; Balls, where simp'ring misses languish ; Hospitals, and groans of anguish. Arts and sciences bewailing ; Commerce drooping, credit failing ; Placemen mocking subjects loyal ; Separations, weddings royal. Authors who can't earn a dinner ; Many a subtle rogue a winner ; Fugitives for shelter seeking ; Misers hoarding, tradesmen breaking. Taste and talents quite deserted ; All the laws of truth perverted ; Arrogance o'er merit soaring ; Merit silently deploring. Ladies gambling night and morning ; Fools the works of genius scorning ; Ancient dames for girls mistaken, Youthful damsels quite forsaken. Some in luxury delighting ; More in talking than in fighting ; Lovers old, and beaux decrepid ; Lordlings empty and insipid. Poets, painters, and musicians ; Lawyers, doctors, politicians : Pamphlets, newspapers, and odes, Seeking fame by diff'rent roads. Gallant souls with empty purses ; Gen'rals only fit for nurses ; School-boys, smit with martial spirit, Taking place of vet'ran merit. Honest men who can't get places, Knaves who shew unblushing faces ; Ruin hasten'd, peace retarded ; Candour spurn'd, and art rewarded.
Sing -- sing -- Music was given To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving; Souls here, like planets in heaven, By harmony's laws alone are kept moving. Beauty may boast of her eyes and her cheeks, But Love from the lips his true archery wings; And she, who but feathers the dart when she speaks, At once sends it home to the heart when she sings. Then sing -- sing -- Music was given, To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving; Souls here, like planets in heaven, By harmony's laws alone are kept moving. When Love, rock'd by his mother, Lay sleeping as calm as slumber could make him, "Hush, hush," said Venus, "no other Sweet voice but his own is worthy to wake him." Dreaming of music he slumber'd the while, Till faint from his lip a soft melody broke, And Venus, enchanted, look'd on with a smile, While Love to his own sweet singing awoke. Then sing -- sing -- Music was given, To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving; Souls here, like planets in heaven, By harmony's laws alone are kept moving.
"They are fools who kiss and tell" -- Wisely has the poet sung. Man may hold all sorts of posts If he'll only hold his tongue. Jenny and Me were engaged, you see, On the eve of the Fancy Ball; So a kiss or two was nothing to you Or any one else at all. Menny would go in a domino -- Pretty and pink but warm; While I attended, clad in a splendid Austrian uniform. Now we had arranged, through notes exchanged Early that afternoon, At Number Four to waltz no more, But to sit in the dusk and spoon. I wish you to see that Jenny and Me Had barely exchanged our troth; So a kiss or two was strictly due By, from, and between us both. When Three was over, an eager lover, I fled to the gloom outside; And a Domino came out also Whom I took for my future bride. That is to say, in a casual way, I slipped my arm around her; With a kiss or two (which is nothing to you), And ready to kiss I found her. She turned her head and the name she said Was certainly not my own; But ere I could speak, with a smothered shriek She fled and left me alone. Then Jenny came, and I saw with shame She'd doffed her domino; And I had embraced an alien waist -- But I did not tell her so. Next morn I knew that there were two
And when the clock struck twelve midnight, Fourteenth, august, forty-seven, An Asian nation turned awake, While world slept on in slumber deep! A hundred years of freedom fight Came to a grinding halt that night, As Pandit Nehru gave his speech, ‘Tryst with destiny’ with reach! India awoke to freedom life, Despite a hundred years of strife, And took a pledge anew to stay A nation, free with peace each day! That moment was so rare indeed; A nation’s soul was stirred to lead, And show the world its powerful seed, As nations totally paid heed. India’s history thus saw a dawn: A struggle great ended that morn, As success finally newborn, Did Motherland with pride adorn. With freedom came newer duties; The failures of the past did cease; The country was given new lease – A cure for this strange a disease! The nation was a sovereign state, On that magical hour and date; As leaders vowed to change the fate Of Indian people’s long a wait. A star of freedom rose in east, Heralding celebration, feast; A hope anew was born that day, To never cease, oh, come what may! The star would never set at all – The Nation’s Father’s clarion call, The architect of freedom’s hall, Was Gandhiji (Bapu) , man tall! He held the torch of freedom high; Many freedom fighters did die; And many people heaved a sigh; As democracy stood too nigh! ‘Jai Hind! Jai Bharat! ’ Copyright by Dr John Celes 8-06-2010
Less time than it takes to say it, less tears than it takes to die; I've taken account of everything, there you have it. I've made a census of the stones, they are as numerous as my fingers and some others; I've distributed some pamphlets to the plants, but not all were willing to accept them. I've kept company with music for a second only and now I no longer know what to think of suicide, for if I ever want to part from myself, the exit is on this side and, I add mischievously, the entrance, the re-entrance is on the other. You see what you still have to do. Hours, grief, I don't keep a reasonable account of them; I'm alone, I look out of the window; there is no passerby, or rather no one passes (underline passes). You don't know this man? It's Mr. Same. May I introduce Madam Madam? And their children. Then I turn back on my steps, my steps turn back too, but I don't know exactly what they turn back on. I consult a schedule; the names of the towns have been replaced by the names of people who have been quite close to me. Shall I go to A, return to B, change at X? Yes, of course I'll change at X. Provided I don't miss the connection with boredom! There we are: boredom, beautiful parallels, ah! how beautiful the parallels are under God's perpendicular.
How my mother treats me, sweeping out the golden straw. Only can it tilt us and it's us it can when only, deeply in the girls our clear feelings show the crimson heels. Arrows point out the doubts of what has yet to come. Mask of crimson, the pupils of her green the silver hair, made up is fate, face is fair the which she burns it up. Just as suddenly like the wind when he arrives with fans, and as I climb up the carriage steps it tilts. He moves away now it retracts and it then begins again. Each movement of the hand and arm sweet violin. I am shy the palace is a worm like my dark hole. Where I was kept like sour wine it can't be slipped. Pinks and yellows red the rose from back to front. Chalice like my being climbs the wall of sweet lilacs. Grace this state I shine and the coming stars and years, I hope each revolution yet to come slides up as night must bring me down to what I am and my guilt for what was done. The sound draws near the sound it is I wish corrosiveness. Two arms one second hand of the clock which never heard.
He left Ireland in nineteen fifty two Our brother John the man I barely knew He was the eldest of the family And the Homeland he was never more to see. In life our brother John he journeyed far He lived through peace time and he lived through war In Korea with the Air Force of the U.S.A. Far distant from the fields of Claraghatlea. One of my sisters Mary wrote to me She said our brother died with dignity In death as in his life he showed his bravery And at least now of his sufferings he's free. Our brother John left two sons and a wife And he worked hard all of his working life Only in his sixties he seemed young to die He was my hero when I was a boy. From Millstreet thousands of sea miles away Our brother John in a distant graveyard lay And though I'd not seen him for more than thirty years The news of his passing reduced me to tears. He was the quiet man never spoke too loud And of our brother John we felt so proud In his death from his sufferings he found his release And may he rest forevermore in peace.
A single picture has brought it all back again. I can smell the smells and hear the sounds as though it were yesterday and not the ancient history of my youth. I close my eyes and feel his hot breath on my face, its sickenly sweet smell nauseats me. His unshaven face touches mine and I retch as the memory overwhelms me. I can almost feel the cool air blowing in the tent I hear the sound of cars going by, a hundred, a thousand, one, ...God, rushing off going by unaware not knowing oblivious to my struggle and the hot red pain as I am awakened My innocent, not lost, but stolen (the awakening came) like the shock of a rapier piercing the heart of a novice fencer. or a sun soaked body thrown into an icy river … I was stunned by the revelation paralyzed, numbed and mute. All the whispers and snickers Jibes and insinuations Came into focus in an instant I understood Like adam, I am not nude, but naked on the inside Shame, like a jacket falls on me, and I put it on For it fits so well Humiliation hangs over me and bends my head down low My soul like clay was shaped by ugly hands Disfigured, damaged dysfunctional forever I looked into his eyes and I think “betrayed again”, Treacherous brown eyes seem to follow me Waiting for me, I was foolish enough to be open and vulnerable, gushing like a school
They have brought Saddam to justice and handed freedom back Or at least that is what you tell me to the people of Iraq But i always thought that freedom included freedom to live free of fear Whilst every day from Iraq of more deaths through violence we do hear. If you think Iraq is such a great place to live in you should try living there And with the basic freedoms that you now enjoy your notes you can compare For you do not seem enlightened on matters of liberty On your ideas of Iraq i for one could not agree. And your ideas of freedom seem quite laughable to me How can one even know of basic freedom if of fear one can't live free You should spend your next holiday in Iraq with your wife and family Otherwise your ideas of freedom i cannot take seriously. When you talk of Iraqi freedom talk is cheap and words are easily said The only news we hear from Iraq is of more Iraqi dead As a holiday destination Iraq i would not recommend Unless of course you are suicidal and you wish your life to end.
Going hunting for some poets The ones with bite and teeth And when I find their tracks I’ll rest a while beneath And let their understanding Sink deep into my bones It could be from Mr.Homer Or that man Mr. Jones. And when I’ve caught a posse Of ten maybe a score I’ll stand them to attention And sing them loud a loud Ohm’s law Then we’ll sail a sailing galleon And roam the seven seas With thunder in the main sail We’ll make good time with ease With Mr. Ohm as Captain We’ll seek the devils lair And blind him in the light And drag him by his hair We’ll bury him far at sea In fathoms blue and deep And when he’s laid to rest We won’t lose a wink of sleep We won’t need a.45 Or blood upon a sword And if I end up in court I’ll plead 'guilty yes my Lord', We took his ghostly fashion And buried it deep at sea So one more of your hearts Shall ever more be free For when we cast him out Into the watery deep Not a single poet amongst us Did stand there and did weep For they all know with reason Just where the devil hides In the shadows of illusion Where selfishness resides So Sir we all plead guilty And would do it yet again To free one more Soul from sorrow From the devil’s heartless reign.
City of contrasts and perspectives as the guide describes, one is baffled where to begin: Eiffel's rusty looks scaling into evanescent skies eerie, metaphysical, existential angst of Sartre and the like at Le Café de Flore in Saint-Germain-Des-Pres, imposing spiritual marvel of Notre Dame De Paris, the city's celebrated night life, Lido which I didn't see (never visit Paris with family) , the pantheon of naked masculinity at the Louvre which boasts of Roman research into true human form (true indeed they were in trimming to size male genitalia to miniscule inches, the exaggerated measure of which had always bloated the male ego into escapades and misadventures unabashedly christened as world history) , magnificent Champs Elysees hooding up at the grand Arc de Triomphe where an unbending De Gaulle was fictioned to have stooped in time to save his head from Jackal's speeding bullet or at last the great River Seine on the banks of which men, women and children stand like windmills raising their arms waving at visitors onboard midstream as though to aliens in close encounter
As I drove 'cross town today To get my Holiday shopping under way With my car radio tuned in Classic Rock - - let the dance begin On comes a Don Henley from 1985 - -'All She Wants to Do Is Dance'- - Up comes the volume Down comes all four car windows Take that you hip-hoppers Wish I had my old speakers From my '66 Malibu Then the lyrics struck me Maybe I've been watchin' Too many presidental debates Maybe just too much CNN Twenty-four hours a day I have no idea if this is what Henley was trying to say But given the state of America's Foreign and energy policies Our refusal to sign The Kyoto Protocol Ratified by 170 other countries To reduce greehouse gases And our nonplused reaction to that And the six-year Iraq War THE IRAQ WAR - -? ? ? It's our war Bought and Paid for Its cost to date in U.S. dollars If relevant to you $469,509,480,910 U.S. troups dead A very relevant 3,865 I said I'm no sure who Henley Had on his mind When he wrote and sang 'All she wants to do is dance' All I could see in my minds eye As I drove on Was my Uncle Sam in a dress Dancing and wantin' to party Thats' what Don's song was saying to me War's in a Surge mode Demos first 100 days Are long gone 'And all she wants to do is dance Rebels being rebels
A letter from abroad. I tear Its sheathing open, unaware What treasure gleams within; and there- Like bird from cage- Flutters a curl of golden hair Out of the page. From such a frolic head 'twas shorn! ('Tis but five years since he was born.) Not sunlight scampering over corn Were merrier thing. A child? A fragment of the morn, A piece of Spring! Surely an ampler, fuller day Than drapes our English skies with grey- A deeper light, a richer ray Than here we know- To this bright tress have given away Their living glow. For Willie dwells where gentian flowers Make mimic sky in mountain bowers; And vineyards steeped in ardent hours Slope to the wave Where storied Chillon's tragic towers Their bases lave; And over piny tracts of Vaud The rose of eve steals up the snow; And on the waters far below Strange sails like wings Half-bodilessly come and go, Fantastic things; And tender night falls like a sigh On châlet low and château high; And the far cataract's voice comes nigh, Where no man hears; And spectral peaks impale the sky On silver spears. Ah, Willie, whose dissevered tress Lies in my hand!-may you possess At least one sovereign happiness, Ev'n to your grave; One boon than which I ask naught less, Naught greater crave: May cloud and mountain, lake and vale, Never to you be trite or stale As unto souls whose wellsprings fail Or flow defiled, Till Nature's happiest fairy-tale Charms not her
She did not know that she was dead, But, when the pang was o'er, Sat down to wait her Master's tread Upon the Golden Floor, With ears full-cock and anxious eye Impatiently resigned; But ignorant that Paradise Did not admit her kind. Persons with Haloes, Harps, and Wings Assembled and reproved; Or talked to her of Heavenly things, But Dinah never moved. There was one step along the Stair That led to Heaven's Gate; And, till she heard it, her affair Was--she explained--to wait. And she explained with flattened ear, Bared lip and milky tooth-- Storming against Ithuriel's Spear That only proved her truth! Sudden--far down the Bridge of Ghosts That anxious spirits clomb-- She caught that step in all the hosts, And knew that he had come. She left them wondering what to do, But not a doubt had she. Swifter than her own squeal she flew Across the Glassy Sea; Flushing the Cherubs every where, And skidding as she ran, She refuged under Peter's Chair And waited for her man. . . . . . . . There spoke a Spirit out of the press, 'Said:--"Have you any here That saved a fool from drunkenness, And a coward from his fear? "That turned a soul from dark to day When other help was vain; That snatched it from Wanhope and made A cur a man again?" "Enter and look," said Peter then, And set The Gate ajar. "If know aught of women and men I trow she is
We are writing today many verses By command and grace of God, By virtue and perseverance! We are writing for God's service, By his guidance in inner core, For bringing transformation, For cracking war and bringing peace, We are writing today to transfer The message of God in many poems, You will read today and tomorrow! Today we are writing, today you read, Also tomorrow you read, read, and read, For learning values and perspectives, For developing inner beauty and personality, When you uplift inner values and conscience Automatically humanity shines with light, You can decide what is right and wrong, Expressing your selfless service towards all, Carrying the values of divine empowerment, Through love, peace and forgiveness you lead, Godly knowledge helps you to recognize life. Illusion cannot affect you if you are awakened, Matters cannot bind you if you are detached, Living life in attachment-free state you learn, Every verse which carries God's message you read, Name, fame, achievements, wealth and relationships, All these things in material world are perishable, At right time you acquire divine knowledge, All those material things are related to body, But you are soul different than body, Finally when time of change comes, You leave your body and form is changed, Every material possession you leave behind And it is destroyed in core of time! Dear soul, you remain in awakened state. © Kumarmani Mahakul,11 December 2018. All rights reserved.
Come up from the fields, father, here's a letter from our Pete; And come to the front door, mother-here's a letter from thy dear son. Lo, 'tis autumn; Lo, where the trees, deeper green, yellower and redder, Cool and sweeten Ohio's villages, with leaves fluttering in the moderate wind; Where apples ripe in the orchards hang, and grapes on the trellis'd vines; (Smell you the smell of the grapes on the vines? Smell you the buckwheat, where the bees were lately buzzing?) Above all, lo, the sky, so calm, so transparent after the rain, and with wondrous clouds; Below, too, all calm, all vital and beautiful-and the farm prospers well. 10 Down in the fields all prospers well; But now from the fields come, father-come at the daughter's call; And come to the entry, mother-to the front door come, right away. Fast as she can she hurries-something ominous-her steps trembling; She does not tarry to smoothe her hair, nor adjust her cap. Open the envelope quickly; O this is not our son's writing, yet his name is sign'd; O a strange hand writes for our dear son-O stricken mother's soul! All swims before her eyes-flashes with black-she catches the main words only; Sentences broken-gun-shot wound in the breast, cavalry skirmish, taken to hospital, 20 At present low, but will soon be better. Ah, now, the single figure to me, Amid all teeming and wealthy Ohio, with all its cities and farms, Sickly white in the face, and dull in the
I dreamed that I ws dead and crossed the heavens,-- Heavens after heavens with burning feet and swift,-- And cried: "O God, where art Thou?" I left one On earth, whose burden I would pray Thee lift." I was so dead I wondered at no thing,-- Not even that the angels slowly turned Their faces, speechless, as I hurried by (Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned); Nor, at the first, that I could not find God, Because the heavens stretched endlessly like space. At last a terror siezed my very soul; I seemed alone in all the crowded place. Then, sudden, one compassionate cried out, Though like the rest his face from me he turned, As I were one no angel might regard (Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned): "No moew in heaven than earth will he find God Who does not know his loving mercy swift But waits the moment consummate and ripe, Each burden, from each human soul to lift." Though I was dead, I died again for shame; Lonely, to flee from heaven again I turned; The ranks of angels looked away from me (Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned).
I. ADIEU, New-England's smiling meads, Adieu, the flow'ry plain: I leave thine op'ning charms, O spring, And tempt the roaring main. II. In vain for me the flow'rets rise, And boast their gaudy pride, While here beneath the northern skies I mourn for health deny'd. III. Celestial maid of rosy hue, O let me feel thy reign! I languish till thy face I view, Thy vanish'd joys regain. IV. Susanna mourns, nor can I bear To see the crystal show'r, Or mark the tender falling tear At sad departure's hour; V. Not unregarding can I see Her soul with grief opprest: But let no sighs, no groans for me, Steal from her pensive breast. VI. In vain the feather'd warblers sing, In vain the garden blooms, And on the bosom of the spring Breathes out her sweet perfumes. VII. While for Britannia's distant shore We sweep the liquid plain, And with astonish'd eyes explore The wide-extended main. VIII. Lo! Health appears! celestial dame! Complacent and serene, With Hebe's mantle o'er her Frame, With soul-delighting mein. IX. To mark the vale where London lies With misty vapours crown'd, Which cloud Aurora's thousand dyes, And veil her charms around. X. Why, Phoebus, moves thy car so slow? So slow thy rising ray? Give us the famous town to view, Thou glorious king of day! XI. For thee, Britannia, I resign New-England's smiling fields; To view again her charms divine, What joy the prospect yields! XII. But thou! Temptation hence away, With all
This poem is not addressed to you. You may come into it briefly, But no one will find you here, no one. You will have changed before the poem will. Even while you sit there, unmovable, You have begun to vanish. And it does not matter. The poem will go on without you. It has the spurious glamor of certain voids. It is not sad, really, only empty. Once perhaps it was sad, no one knows why. It prefers to remember nothing. Nostalgias were peeled from it long ago. Your type of beauty has no place here. Night is the sky over this poem. It is too black for stars. And do not look for any illumination. You neither can nor should understand what it means. Listen, it comes with out guitar, Neither in rags nor any purple fashion. And there is nothing in it to comfort you. Close your eyes, yawn. It will be over soon. You will forge the poem, but not before It has forgotten you. And it does not matter. It has been most beautiful in its erasures. O bleached mirrors! Oceans of the drowned! Nor is one silence equal to another. And it does not matter what you think. This poem is not addressed to you.
Any culture that teaches tolerance is great Their back ground and heritage may clearly state The excavations may lead to some clue It is remnant of national treasure and venue No one can simply boost of culture without any back ground It has to be worked out on certain theory and must be found All revelations that may come to the fore and in light It may have to be preserved as asset and declared as monument or site National achieve is full of ancient gadgets They are provided with special budget They are not made to suffer for the want of fund It is preference for national pride for the land When we speak highly of achieves? We clearly see what that stand to achieve? How national sentiments bring them together in the time of crisis? There is no special thinking or thesis We are full aware that national moral should stand all the time very high National flag should be seen all over and fly It is not mere piece of cloth but heart of millions It must send clear waves to the heart of aliens Many countries are known for their known loyalty The people have also proved it number of times by remaining loyal They had deep regard for the ruler of the land They stood fast for the country with hand to hand Nothing can compare when it comes to the question of devotion It is the duty of all population to keep the wheels
I am who I am Because of what I am I ask for freedom from love I ask for freedom from slavery I ask for freedom from hunger I ask for freedom from desire You know and I know That not all seeds you sow Will eventually grow This is contemporary poem Seeking for freedom with my pen I read there was an old man Who bade farewell to his only son At the hands of his own gun Where his actions contemporary? Was his anger or concern temporary? This is contemporary poem Seeking for freedom with my pen Vivid imagination leads to frustration It could trigger a chain-reaction Hence the concept of mass-killing Is born out of an over-reacted feeling There is no cure or process of healing Once death is the meal we are dealing This is contemporary poem Seeking for freedom with my pen We drink with intention to forget We drink but later on regret And the people are walking And the people are talking Talking about freedom, freedom Talking about a heavenly kingdom Talking about their great grandfathers and their moms Talking about freedom in any shape or form This is contemporary poem Seeking for freedom with my pen And it does not make any sense Why we always speak first in defense And it does not make any sense Why our passion for life despite the struggle is immense We crave for human heroes Those who started from zero Their brave tales flows tremendously
'O for a knight like Bayard, Without reproach or fear; My light glove on his casque of steel, My love-knot on his spear! 'O for the white plume floating Sad Zutphen's field above, The lion heart in battle, The woman's heart in love! 'O that man once more were manly, Woman's pride, and not her scorn That once more the pale young mother Dared to boast `a man is born'! 'But, now life's slumberous current No sun-bowed cascade wakes; No tall, heroic manhood The level dulness breaks. 'O for a knight like Bayard, Without reproach or fear! My light glove on his casque of steel My love-knot on his spear!' Then I said, my own heart throbbing To the time her proud pulse beat, 'Life hath its regal natures yet,- True, tender, brave, and sweet! 'Smile not, fair unbeliever! One man, at least, I know, Who might wear the crest of Bayard Or Sydney's plume of snow. 'Once, when over purple mountains Died away the Grecian sun, And the far Cyllenian ranges Paled and darkened, one by one,- 'Fell the Turk, a bolt of thunder, Cleaving all the quiet sky, And against his sharp steel lightnings Stood the Suliote but to die. 'Woe for the weak and halting! The crescent blazed behind A curving line of sabres Like fire before the wind! 'Last to fly, and first to rally, Rode he of whom I speak, When, groaning in his bridle path, Sank down like a wounded Greek. 'With the rich
All these voices, where do they come from? The wind blows, and I do not now your source. You take me with you in spite of my will On each journey, who directs my course? Not love, not life, not even death itself Like a fallen feather death slowly unfolds. I am here today but gone tomorrow Where to, and who cast the final moulds? Some high flyers, the spine from their back disappears, While others come crashing down in pieces and die. I know fate does not wait on my acts or me, Who writes this final verse -is it really I? "Carpe diem quam minimum credula postero" Horace words fall silent on my deaf ears Youth ambition blinds the daylight bats And lonely nights are doubts fallen fears. I leave the Gods out from this equation Math and algebra are not my strongest token. My beating heart is my rhyming in question My heart's harp strings are old but not broken. "What remains of us is love'" I wholeheartedly embrace, Such love foretold is for some is a fool's gold They went searching for love but found its doors Locked behind triple chains blackened with mould. I fess up, I confess, this was their test, not my test, And they failed miserably to find true love and to recover. Seize the moment and go for the pot of gold - is their gold standard- But not my cup of tea, I prefer to be content as a poetry
(all my evening sessions have been set to torches- the day ends in recession and what the night remembers merely dissolves- the taciturn migration of sunlight into shadow) Sitting on the step after kicking the moon down off his perch, tapping my naked toes against the raw light. Beethoven’s moonlight Sonata drifts across the humid distance; even now he plays feverishly for a deaf world. Siren’s echo drives a fear through my head and I am aware, once again, of the pain that I dread. The judge has spoken, the reaper comes to reap, another life, another deathbed takes up space in your master room- and all the world with all its people are sentenced to a fate more certain in emptiness than in loveliness. Tragedy strikes and you light a candle in remembrance of all the times you’ve loved and let go, of all the times you've lost and held on- all the tears you could never quite shed, all the real love that came to you, one night during an emotional storm and you refused it shelter. Serene moments reflected in a puddle of tap water, substance rejected by the sky because its flesh, its face, wasn’t quite as beautiful and clean- but one can always dream. All-American girls, pig-tales and pony-braids playing hopscotch on the wet cement, the rules and guild-lines long since washed away, burnt into memory, so vividly, they carry on. I remember you, vividly- in my tossed about, broken down bed, the posts all
Let America be America again. Let it be the dream it used to be. Let it be the pioneer on the plain Seeking a home where he himself is free. (America never was America to me.) Let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed-- Let it be that great strong land of love Where never kings connive nor tyrants scheme That any man be crushed by one above. (It never was America to me.) O, let my land be a land where Liberty Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath, But opportunity is real, and life is free, Equality is in the air we breathe. (There's never been equality for me, Nor freedom in this "homeland of the free.") Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? And who are you that draws your veil across the stars? I am the poor white, fooled and pushed apart, I am the Negro bearing slavery's scars. I am the red man driven from the land, I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek-- And finding only the same old stupid plan Of dog eat dog, of mighty crush the weak. I am the young man, full of strength and hope, Tangled in that ancient endless chain Of profit, power, gain, of grab the land! Of grab the gold! Of grab the ways of satisfying need! Of work the men! Of take the pay! Of owning everything for one's own greed! I am the farmer, bondsman to the soil. I am
~ Mother Dear, O Mother Dear Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were you ever young? How felt you on the day when love had just begun? Did tulips drip from every branch and joy obscure the sun? Did secret smiles once mold your hopes Where lines of care and dread are ropes That tell of bitter loss instead, The smiles forgotten now and fled? Like me, were you once mesmerized Of blissfilled future, sunny skies, Then saw the storm clouds gather round, Felt the darkness, heard the sound Of lighting charring all your dreams, Each betrayal worse than last it seems? Through heavy days and heavy thoughts, Each step mechanically has brought You to this day where now you live, Those dreams forgotten, for it is That dreams are fairy-castles built And meant to evaporate and wilt. Then, as you held each fragile child, Did ghosts of dreams bring back a smile? Forgotten dreams, once more reborn, To die again before the dawn- Unmourned, unnoticed, as time moved on, Interred within your heart's sad song? Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were we ever young?
Behold her, Running through the waves Eager to reach the land; The water laps her, Sun and wind are on her, Healthy, brine-drenched and young, Behold Desire new-born;- Desire on first fulfillment's radiant edge, Love at miraculous moment of emergence, This is she, Who running, Hastens, hastens to the land. Look. . Look. . Her blown gold hair and lucent eyes of youth, Her body rose and ivory in the sun. . Look, How he hastens, Running, running to the land. Her hands are yearning and her feet are swift To reach and hold She knows not what Yet knows that it is life; Need urges her, Self, uncomprehended but most deep divined, Unwilled but all-comprelling, drives her on. Life runs to life. She who longs, But hath not yet accepted or bestowed, All virginal dear and bright, Runs, runs to reach the land. And she who runs shall be married to blue of summer skies at noon, companion to green fields, held bride to subtle fragrance and of all sweet sound, beloved of the stars, and wanton priestess to the veering winds. Oh breathless space between: Womb-time just passed, Dark-hidden, chaotic formative, unpersonal, And individual life of fresh-created force Not yet begun: One moment more Before desire shall meet desire And new creation start. Oh breathless space, While she, Just risen from the waves, Runs, runs to reach the land. (Ah, keenest personal moment When mouth unkissed turns eager-slow and tremulous Toward lover's mouth, That tremulous and eager-slow Droops
Lo, it is dark, Save for the crystal spark Of a virgin star o'er the purpling lea, Or the fine, keen, silvery grace of a young Moon that is hung O'er the priest-like firs by the sea; Lo, it is still, Save for the wind of the hill, And the luring, primeval sounds that fill The moist and scented air­ 'Tis the truce o' night, away with unrest and care! Now we may forget Love's fever and hate's fret, Forget to-morrow and yesterday; And the hopes we buried in musky gloom Will come out of their tomb, Warm and poignant and gay; We may wander wide, With only a wish for a guide, By heath and pool where the Little Folk bide, We may share in fairy mirth, And partake once more in the happy thoughts of earth. Lo, we may rest Here on her cradling breast In the wonderful time of the truce o' night, And sweet things that happened long ago, Softly and slow, Will creep back to us in delight; And our dreams may be Compact of young melody, Just such as under the Eden Tree, 'Mid the seraphim's lullabies, Eve's might have been ere banished from Paradise.
Mine are the night and morning, The pits of air, the gulf of space, The sportive sun, the gibbous moon, The innumerable days. I hid in the solar glory, I am dumb in the pealing song, I rest on the pitch of the torrent, In slumber I am strong. No numbers have counted my tallies, No tribes my house can fill, I sit by the shining Fount of Life, And pour the deluge still; And ever by delicate powers Gathering along the centuries From race on race the rarest flowers, My wreath shall nothing miss. And many a thousand summers My apples ripened well, And light from meliorating stars With firmer glory fell. I wrote the past in characters Of rock and fire the scroll, The building in the coral sea, The planting of the coal. And thefts from satellites and rings And broken stars I drew, And out of spent and aged things I formed the world anew; What time the gods kept carnival, Tricked out in star and flower, And in cramp elf and saurian forms They swathed their too much power. Time and Thought were my surveyors, They laid their courses well, They boiled the sea, and baked the layers Or granite, marl, and shell. But he, the man-child glorious,-- Where tarries he the while? The rainbow shines his harbinger, The sunset gleams his smile. My boreal lights leap upward, Forthright my planets roll, And still the man-child is not born, The summit of the whole. Must
S So you say that God is real, my friend, Then why is there war and hate? And what about babies that die, And what about their fate? Are we cursed because we don't believe, Are we cursed because we fell? There may not be a God in Heaven, But I'm sure we're living in Hell. J The unknown ways of our powerful God? Well now, How shall I explain? For Man is only using about one tenth of his brain Bad things don’t happen because of God That’s why we have free will We do the bad things to ourselves And I guess we always will S So convince me then that God is love Convince me of it, please Show me that he cares for all, And that he cares for me. Convince me that it’s not a lie, Convince me that it’s real, Convince me that his name is Lord, Is this the way you feel? J It is not for me to convince you For I am only man But I’ll help you know the spirit of God In a way you will understand For when you open up your heart And you open up your mind You’ll feel his very presence and Know that you’ve been blind S Yes, well then, that all sounds fine, I’ll try, but how to start? I could offer up a prayer to him, But the horse is before the cart, I think that he should call me first, And
With Lithium Grease It excites the brain metals Magnetic Fields cook < br> Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Why dont you come home at nights? Why are you always getting into fights? Why are your eyes always so red? Why do you seem like your hanging by a thread? Why are you always in a bad mood? Why dont you come home....except for food? Why dont I hear from you? Your always with your friends. Please, tell me what we did wrong, I'll gladly make amends. Where does all your money go? Wait...dont tell me...I dont want to know. Please pull yourself together. Make something of your life Buy a house, settle down, have children with a wife... Please stop doing all this foolishness you do. But remember, no matter what. I will always love you. Brother, dear brother whatever you choose. whatever you lose I wont abandon you, never....I refuse I'll be by your side to the very end. When all your friends leave, I'll be your best friend Just please let me help you fix your bad choices. When choosing your path...let your family be the voices. We'll guide you to life We'll guide you to hope We'll guide you away from the booze and the dope So please make room in your heart for the ones who love you. We'll be with you forever. We love you through and through.
SING A SONG OF SIXTH SENSE MAD OFF COURSE - MURDER GOOSE RHYMES Sing sin's song of sixth sense, fink senators debating unthinkingly of budget cuts, sink U.S. credit rating, 'n lies' between the 'lines' are seen with House and Senate fighting while unemployed face winter cold, cold feet drag, Jack frost biting. Four and twenty blackbirds from sky to pie swift falling, men saw in Arkansas, elsewhere, bare facts scare were appalling, upon the cusp Aquarian new age shows signs eroding with governments across the globe progressively imploding. Inflation's shadow grows apace, as tax cuts cut employment, while talibans' attacks are answered - pullback redeployment, nonsense world whirled as unfurled is future fate's implosion, as blatant contradictions blow - soon G.O.P. explosion will open evidence afford beyond the Kingdom Denmark that something rotten's rolling stone - no candyfloss in ballpark - no moss may gather as the world turns topsy-turvy spinning with Gulliver in Lapata's Academy loss winning. Multinational eggplants yoking humankind led merry maypole goal dance prehensile non-aligned, when humpty-dumpty causeway was crossed by bossy bears namby-pamby Daddy Dow went stumbling down the stairs. Harmonics multimodal, soap-opera crescendo, unwinds dingbatty attitude advisers apprehendo, though silly season willy-nilly spills baked beans on breadline undertaking baking powder chowder readers red line. Fuddy-duddy Fannie Mae haphazardly foreclosing found Freddie Mac unsound and flat-on-back no sense proposing, as oil recoiled blarney trefoil enchantingly unreachable jabberwocky Chaney stabbed chained 'scooter', unimpeachable Against the grainy libby_ration over understanding a robbing hood good riddance pittance
Linda, you are leaving your old body now, It lies flat, an old butterfly, all arm, all leg, all wing, loose as an old dress. I reach out toward it but my fingers turn to cankers and I am motherwarm and used, just as your childhood is used. Question you about this and you hold up pearls. Question you about this and you pass by armies. Question you about this - you with your big clock going, its hands wider than jackstraws - and you'll sew up a continent. Now that you are eighteen I give you my booty, my spoils, my Mother & Co. and my ailments. Question you about this and you'll not know the answer - the muzzle at the oxygen, the tubes, the pathways, the war and the war's vomit. Keep on, keep on, keep on, carrying keepsakes to the boys, carrying powders to the boys, carrying, my Linda, blood to the bloodletter. Linda, you are leaving your old body now. You've picked my pocket clean and you've racked up all my poker chips and left me empty and, as the river between us narrows, you do calisthenics, that womanly leggy semaphore. Question you about this and you will sew me a shroud and hold up Monday's broiler and thumb out the chicken gut. Question you about this and you will see my death drooling at these gray lips while you, my burglar, will eat fruit and pass the time of day.
Those who spend decades learning about Nature of Nature's ways will tell you they have much to know Her deepest secrets we will never learn of and our wonder of her only seem to grow One could live for a thousand years and yet not know all about her as her most precious secrets with us she will never share And yet in part due to us she does seem much the poorer as many of her life forms either extinct or rare Many of her waterways by us have been polluted our factories puff up black smoke to the sky Why do we try to harm the one who feeds us that is the question many have asked why Without us Nature would do nicely though for to live on her we do depend She supplies all of our needs for our existence though to her we are not a good friend In technology humans have come far and many human achievements are great But we've not been respectful to Nature and that's something we cannot celebrate But Nature she will live forever and like her Seasons we come to life and die Immortality for us Homo Sapiens has surely been based on a lie We depend on her for our very existence and our achievements to her seem so small And though we are one of her life forms we do not respect her at all.
To finger-sponge crust crumbs of fruit meringue (Grass prickling through the blanket-tablecloth); To climb the shading oak; to roll and hang Inverted from a branch, as if a sloth; And, after dropping neatly from the branch, To pull a cup off of a tube of cups; To grab a towel hurriedly to stanch A soda which, on opening, erupts— This was to be there thirty years ago, A time constrained and hurtful, yet the day Now has the settled warmth of a tableau. Cloud stacks stand whitely, farmlands stretch away, While her two brothers, in a make-believe World Series, wave their baseball gloves and run About the meadow as they stab and heave Each other blinding high-flies in the sun. Her uncle, to distract and to compose An argument between his daughters, lies Upon his back and eye-catchingly blows Smoke rings which grayly loosen as they rise. Her parents will divorce within a year, But neither fully grasps the crisis yet: They kneel and wrap leftovers and appear Absorbed in a congenial tête-à-tête. And she can walk the meadow at her ease, Switching the tall grass with an osier wand; Can hear the white-throats in the woods reprise The long rich notes with which they correspond; Can spread and duck through a barbed wire fence; Can sit on, horseback style, a fallen tree While grasshoppers perform leaps so immense They seem beyond the claims of gravity. This idyll will be, she intuits, brief; The fabric of the family will tear.
money can be power many people become inslave to the almighty dollar it fuels an economy it ends an nation brings pleasure to oneself brings pain to onesself it causes desperration and sets chains to oneself indivduals inject the money dope into there vains to bring them happiness but it leaves them insane people who lack it want it people who have it want more money is infatuation it can bring you sex from a whore but it blinds you from the ones you should adore it affects brain it brings stress to your state of mind, it leaves your head with a receeded hair line it pollutes the world because money is toxicity, it causes you to over eat and it leaves you with obesity it can be a stab in the back a kick in the ass, it can leave you in the street wishin you were in the past it produces greed it plants the seed of something you cant live without and something you need it speaks every language and its never ignored, we give money to the church because they say its for the lord thats bullshit, if in worship we are the performers, and God is the audience that we see, shouldnt worship be free? survival of the fittest in this time people are working from 9 to 5 for the nickel dime a cancer in society a false form piety a fake form of religion shared by the royalty with an undying loyalty
The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere. Heaped in the hollows of the grove, the autumn leaves lie dead; They rustle to the eddying gust, and to the rabbit's tread; The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the jay, And from the wood-top calls the crow through all the gloomy day. Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers, that lately sprang and stood In brighter light and softer airs, a beauteous sisterhood? Alas! they all are in their graves, the gentle race of flowers Are lying in their lowly beds, with the fair and good of ours. The rain is falling where they lie, but the cold November rain Calls not from out the gloomy earth the lovely ones again. The wind-flower and the violet, they perished long ago, And the brier-rose and the orchis died amid the summer glow; But on the hills the golden-rod, and the aster in the wood, And the yellow sun-flower by the brook in autumn beauty stood, Till fell the frost from the clear cold heaven, as falls the plague on men, And the brightness of their smile was gone, from upland, glade, and glen. And now, when comes the calm mild day, as still such days will come, To call the squirrel and the bee from out their winter home; When the sound of dropping nuts is heard, though all the trees are still,
Real as a dream What shall I do with this great opportunity to fly? What is the interpretation of this planet, this moon? if I can dream that I dream / and dream anything dreamable / can I dream I am awake / and why do that? When I dream in a dream that I wake / up what happens when I try to move? I dream that I move and the effort moves and moves till I move / and my arm hurts Then I wake up / dismayed / I was dreaming / I was waking when I was dreaming still / just now. and try to remember next time in dreams that I am in dreaming. And dream anything I want when I'm awaken. When I'm in awakeness what do I desire? I desire to fulfill my emotional belly. My whole body my heart in my fingertops thrill with some old fulfillments. Pages of celestial rhymes burning fire-words unconsumable but disappear. Arcane parchments my own and the universe the answer. Belly to Belly and knee to knee. The hot spurt of my body to thee and thee old boy / dreamy Earl / you Prince of Paterson / now king of me / lost Haledon first dream that made me take down my pants urgently to show the cars / auto tracks / rolling down avenue hill. That far back what do I remember / but the face of the leader of the gang was blond /
How can I give you more of this ever failing verse? I pick a line for you, it withers before it reaches your lips. If I do not pick something beautiful enough, You grow inattentive, And give your heart to brave soldiers. So I travel up the lighted stairs to the attic Where the grandfather lives with his little girl. They know everything about the mountains, And they can sing: I bottle their romance in an empty medicine bottle. The label is torn off, And you can use it for a vase; It is easily big enough for all the things that I say, To puncture your heart with an arrow head I stole from my mother, And that gives me time to look for new phrases That grow where the dead men lay tongue-tied In the ravishing gardens: As you pause, Because it is dangerous, the games we young men play, And at anytime you can return to your queen: In the forms of water and wood, Just one suckle from the breast of that muse, The lady only the published can tackle, And you will never again turn your head to this page, So I must open up these wrists And search for the novel species of a diviner kingdom, Leaping through the canals and estuaries, For phrasings of thought I have to discover, To butter your lips, and butcher your heart, Because your are the kind my wanting needs, And no other, though I may live alone
The Doctor whispered to the Nurse And the Surgeon knew what he said, And he grew pale at the Doctor's tale And trembled in his sick bed. Now fetch me my brethren and fetch them with speed The Surgeon affrighted said, The Parson and the Undertaker, Let them hasten or I shall be dead. The Parson and the Undertaker They hastily came complying, And the Surgeon's Prentices ran up stairs When they heard that their master was dying. The Prentices all they entered the room By one, by two, by three, With a sly grin came Joseph in, First of the company. The Surgeon swore as they enter'd his door, 'Twas fearful his oaths to hear,-- Now send these scoundrels to the Devil, For God's sake my brethren dear. He foam'd at the mouth with the rage he felt And he wrinkled his black eye-brow, That rascal Joe would be at me I know, But zounds let him spare me now. Then out they sent the Prentices, The fit it left him weak, He look'd at his brothers with ghastly eyes, And faintly struggled to speak. All kinds of carcasses I have cut up, And the judgment now must be-- But brothers I took care of you, So pray take care of me! I have made candles of infants fat The Sextons have been my slaves, I have bottled babes unborn, and dried Hearts and livers from rifled graves. And my Prentices now will surely come And carve me bone
Dusty roads greeted me With a smile. Welcoming me back, I'm home, Home sweet home. I slowly drove past Herds of cows and goats feeding. Ha! Ha! I'm home, Home sweet home. I see children playing, Runing up and down, Singing their lungs out. I'm home, Home sweet home. I meet elders ryding Their twenty-something old bicycles. Waving at me as i pass by, Smiling that honest smile. I'm home, Home sweet home. I see women with their babys 0n their backs, coming from maize plantations. Even though its boilin g hot, They still have that smile, That smile that can melt ice at antartica. It reminds me..... I am home. I see the black eagle Soaring high up in the sky..... I see those majestic mountains, That have been my dear friend growing up, That swallowed livestock and humans. They are covered by a beautiful Green blanket..... Its beautiful..... I am home. Red and white butterflies Are everywhere, hugging and Kissing every flower they see. I'm home, Home sweet home. I am home..... Where nights are quiet and peaceful. Where days are long and joyful. Where respect is the order of the day. Mmm! i smile a genuine smie, Because here, there are no fake smiles. I can feel that cool breeze, That tar roads, gigantic buildings And massive firms swallow in the city. I am home..... Here, i am a father and uncle To every child. It takes the whole village To raise a child.Right? I am a
TO her, for I must still regard her As feminine in her degree, Who has been my unkind bombarder Year after year, in grief and glee, Year after year, with oaken tree; And yet betweenwhiles my laudator In terms astonishing to me - To the Right Reverend The Spectator I here, a humble dedicator, Bring the last apples from my tree. In tones of love, in tones of warning, She hailed me through my brief career; And kiss and buffet, night and morning, Told me my grandmamma was near; Whether she praised me high and clear Through her unrivalled circulation, Or, sanctimonious insincere, She damned me with a misquotation - A chequered but a sweet relation, Say, was it not, my granny dear? Believe me, granny, altogether Yours, though perhaps to your surprise. Oft have you spruced my wounded feather, Oft brought a light into my eyes - For notice still the writer cries. In any civil age or nation, The book that is not talked of dies. So that shall be my termination: Whether in praise or execration, Still, if you love me, criticise!
Behold, how eager this our little boy Is for a butterfly, as if all joy, All profits, honours, yea, and lasting pleasures, Were wrapped up in her, or the richest treasures Found in her would be bundled up together, When all her all is lighter than a feather. He halloos, runs, and cries out, 'Here, boys, here!' Nor doth he brambles or the nettles fear: He stumbles at the molehills, up he gets, And runs again, as one bereft of wits; And all his labour and his large outcry Is only for a silly butterfly. Comparison This little boy an emblem is of those Whose hearts are wholly at the world's dispose. The butterfly doth represent to me The world's best things at best but fading be. All are but painted nothings and false joys, Like this poor butterfly to these our boys. His running through nettles, thorns, and briers, To gratify his boyish fond desires, His tumbling over molehills to attain His end, namely, his butterfly to gain, Doth plainly show what hazards some men run To get what will be lost as soon as won.
I sit and stare at this empty page, The wind howls long at the winter eaves, The cloud is heavy, and black with rage As squalls dance in through the myrtle leaves. While deep inside in the cottage gloom My love lies weary, cocooned in dreams, I hear her cry in the darkened room Call out one name from a nightmare scene. ‘Michelle, ’ she mutters, then groans aloud I grit my teeth at the open door, The wind it eddies in dust and leaves And echoes long at the water tower. ‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ it grumbles and groans, ‘Michelle, ’ it whispers, then skips and howls; My love rolls over in deepest sleep While I keep watch through the early hours. The storm comes in and the rain drives down, Batters at windows and roof in vain, The wires whine in a humming frown: ‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ is its one refrain. And tears roll at my weathered cheek The clock chimes five at the early hour, Michelle once crawled from her bed, asleep, And went to climb at the water tower. Her hair was black as a raven’s coat Her eyes set back in that tiny face, Three winters long was her spell of dreams Before she crept to that dreadful place. Three winters long was our fairy child Who lisped and chattered from heart to heart, The cottage door had a faulty latch – I’d always meant to replace that part. But now, awake from her nest of
The first area to look into is those pillars of American success I identified above: Cheap Labor, Cheap Energy, Cheap Food and a country filled with natural resources. To this list I will now add, a decent birth rate or immigrant flow, small town and technical green enclave investment, income distribution reform, land distribution reforms, banking and financial reforms and a re-thinking of the purposes of an economy. Cheap labor built this country, from the Chinese coming to lay the track for the railroads, to the Africans working the cotton in the South, to the immigrants from Europe who cleared the land in the west, who worked the factories, fought the wars and made America what it is today. Needless to say the labor scene is not the same today. Cheap labor has been outsourced to other countries. The American middle class has not only been abandoned but 40% of American savings were taken from them and their homes, their major asset, are now selling for half the purchase price to those very same interests which took the savings and the land. We are heading for a two class system, therefore, the rich and the poor. Certainly that is the pattern becoming evident in many of our cities. In addition, there is the lack of labor, cheap or otherwise, which is the demographic issue. Americans are not having children, nor are Europeans and the demographics are becoming clear: By 2050, some demographic studies show, the reproducing populations of Russia, Britain,
Ageing Bella in the house at the corner outdoors she is not often seen She was a potential swimming Olympian till a motoring accident she had at eighteen Brought an end to her swimming career back in ninteen seventy three And condemned her to life in a wheelchair she does deserve great sympathy. She could not compete in the Olympics and swim her way into renown And become the toast of the Nation and the heroine of her Hometown It robbed her of her chance of having children she has never been any man's wife one might say she was quite unlucky that accident ruined her life. She is quite an attractive woman her brown hair flecked with strands of gray She had spent years of her life in a wheelchair seven to ten years before her prime day when I meet her she smiles and says hello but sometimes she looks rather sad I can only empathize with her a terrible life she has had. Thirty six of her fifty four years in a wheelchair since her widowed mum died five years ago she has lived on her own Lady luck is surely against her a terrible life she has known Confined to a wheelchair due to a car crash on the highway which robbed her of her chance of fame In swimming she was a young champion and for herself making a name.
Many ask, if I'm high, Many ask, if I'm low, Many ask, why are you so happy? And many ask, why are you so sad? Many questions asked, and I don't answer, Many don't ask questions, and I'm left to question myself, Many ask, what's wrong with you? And many ask, what's wrong? Many seem confused, but I don't care, Many don't care, and now I'm confused. Many wonder, Many care, Many laugh, As I breathe for air. Many know me, and I couldn't care less, Many don't know me, and now I couldn't care more. For those who don't know me, I'm full of ups and downs, Twists and turns, Lefts and rights, Many roller coaster rides. My energy goes up and down, My brain twists and turns, My mood swings from left to right, And then from right to left, And then once more just a couple more times, It's like a never-ending pendulum. I think of life as an emotional roller coaster ride, That has no beginning, And has no middle, And most of all has no ending. Confused much? I would think so... But do you understand... ...What it's like to live with Bipolar Depression? ...
Away from the night Everyone moves across the street To be together, far from, They are attracted to the light And the music the flesh makes As it dies Traveling away from home A cross to where I have no eyes, intersecting without hope And I can not see where she is, gone, The thing that never was between us And the flowers in the gutter leading To the sea- before the sun rises, The thing that never was dissolves and goes away In tiny fragments before the sun And her kiss imagined, always felt, But never, All the pleasures of the system, petals budding From the glowing stems, Like lines on a road, The conduits of rushing people, Discarding me And I am roadkill lying dead beside Her bed (as they make some kind of attempt at love) And forgotten on her neck, a broken gem, Once priceless- now trash- In the shadows beside where all The lives move Dances to the lights and forgets Neighborhoods drunken and empty, abandoned museums, And the life flipping over in mausoleums Pages in a book read but Not understood, a bed of transgressions And falsehoods made-up to hide the stains Like the nights coming on attracting the Insects calling our humanity, a god of weekends, And spirits past, Forgetting to resist the temptation, Where my wrist lays open and waiting For a kiss.
It may be buried memories from my past Though still fresh and striking to my heart How I wish its effects ceases to last But anytime it flashes my mind, it makes me sad. I stopped writing about it few months ago For it irritates the Jones and saddens the slaves But whenever I spend time alone I can't help it but to write on my slate. Haven long been a vibrant slave myself I have seen, felt and lived in slavery As it drags multitudes to their premature graves And causes the deceived, lots of misery. I remember how it had laid a peasant farmer To his peaceful rest, because he had a cut But was not able to seek the help of the doctor, It is a pity, I feel the pains, it pierces my heart. I remember my mum, cooking in that dark kitchen, Fanning the tripod stand with her mouth Tears dripping from her eyes, what a poor maiden! I feel her pains too, but I look into the future and laugh. I also remember how dad returns from the farm, his economy Where he had lived most of his life, he is very exhausted But mummy still consoles him, what a happy colony! Butter and sugar, have in their lives, never tasted. But they always have one thing, that never perishes, Although, they have been in slavery for many years They have hope and dream of a new dawn of riches Where poverty shall no
After you’ve negotiated that artfully-conceived sharp elbow bend in the long, grand drive through the fields of its estate, and it hoves into view, you always gasp – this palace - no, more like a temple with living quarters – set deep in the countryside, yet as sure as one in Athens or in Rome; yet that too is artfully contrived - the slight mound it’s built on, the cunning proportion that magnifies, disguises, with its public face the aptness of a family home; its public rooms so grand, just echoing enough to magnify a public speech; its family rooms smallish, cosy; love and friendliness live here. It says to the world, stability; tradition re-affirmed; yet this is our familiar family home. It has its rooms, as rooms should be, devoted to each family pursuit: here’s the grand library but here, with books so evidently, lovingly well read; you almost missed the little girl, her hair and knees curled round a book, deep in that leather green armchair; the study, where your breathing seems to change, there’s such a still and living silence here; the nursery that emanates a lifetime’s care; the children’s bedrooms set around it, through which you ran and laughed and ran again; the window seats from which you looked so wistfully as childhood’s assurance faded into teenage questioning; a house to leave, a house to come back to; a metaphor as living, haunting, as the poetry it is.
My husband loved me, pity the fool, We met when I was young, When I was eager to please, And grateful for his love, He meant the world to me, But we both changed, And my love turned to hate. It meant to much at the start, But he grew bored, Of my ageing body, Of my belly that wobbled, And the wrinkles, That came to dominate my face, My once golden complexion, Lost in the sands of time. My husband's loyalty faded, His heart grew cold, As did mine, I would cook dinner, I would fix breakfast, And please him as best I could, All the while plotting revenge, For those extra-marital affairs. He made a mockery of me, He humiliated me, And lied to me, But to the outsider, I was none the wiser, Playing the sad and sorry fool. He deserved pain and death, To know how it felt to be betrayed. So I went online, With the few computer skills I had, And managed to trick my way, To a vial of cyanide. Tonight we will have the talk, And I will pretend to forgive him, Of my ageing body, And a face lost without youth, And when the authorities come, They will not know the truth. He will have had a heart attack in bed, His head, Lying on the pillow dead, His heart knowing how it feels, To be broken, The son-of-a-b*tch dead, Gone forever. But the police are here now: They have discovered
Little Ballads Of Timely Warning; III: On Laziness And Its Resultant Ills There was a man in New York City (His name was George Adolphus Knight) So soft of heart he wept with pity To see our language and its plight. He mourned to see it sorely goaded With silent letters left and right; These from his own name he unloaded And wrote it Georg Adolfus Nit. Six other men in that same city Who longed to see a Spelling Heaven Formed of themselves a strong committee And asked Georg Nit to make it seven. He joined the other six with pleasure, Proud such important men to know, Agreeing that their first great measure Should be to shorten the word though. But G. Adolfus Nit was lazy; He dilly-dallied every day; His life was dreamy, slow and hazy, And indolent in every way. On Monday morn at nine precisely The six reformers (Nit not there) Prepared to simplify though nicely, And each was eager for his share. Smith bit the h off short and ate it; Griggs from the thoug chewed off the g; Brown snapped off u to masticate it, And tho alone was left for three. Delancy’s teeth broke o off quickly; From th Billings took his t, And then the h, albeit prickly, Was shortly swallowed by McGee. This done, the six lay back in plenty, Well fed, they picked their teeth and smiled, And lazy Nit, about 10:20, Strolled in, as careless as a child. 'Well,
In Roman times, when swords were raised, And peace on Earth was rare, There lived a girl now highly praised, A girl beyond compare... Her name was Mary, Joseph's love, Betrothed, untouched by Man... Who met an angel from above Who then revealed God's plan! 'Young maiden, you are full of grace! The Lord chose you of all! You shall conceive and then embrace The child that God must call! He shall be king and rightly so, Begotten of the Lord! And blessed is he, God's Son to know... So, Mary, be assured! ' God's Son was born as prophesied! To Mary, here on Earth... In time, she saw Him crucified! Esteemed not for His worth! Her heart was broken just like His! She held his mortal frame! And neath her tears, a final kiss As she whispered His name... Her heart was numbed just like her soul... With trembling hands she prayed... Although she knew God kept control, Her spirit was dismayed! With trembling lips she sought His peace, Like none on Earth before! In hopes her faith would thus release A miracle and more! When Jesus left His tomb of death, The sun was rising, too... The Saviour savoured God's new breath And knew what He must do... 'With God, all things are possible! Forgiveness, born of faith! ' Such is the Gospel preached by Paul To those whom God would save...
One night, in the dead of night Seven girls, one guy Watched the torture of a girl on TV The most disturbing, terrifying horror movie When the film reached the end Three girls and the guy got up and left Way past curfew, to the park With hopes to get scared in the dark While the other four girls' stayed at home Trying to figure out where to go Something else was happening... Shallow, low, and backstabbing The one guy in the group stole a bottle of brandy From my, one of the girls', kitchen pantry Did I mention I was his girlfriend? Having said that, you would think that would have stopped him! They passed it around As they sat at the playground Got a warm, fuzzy tingle And started to mingle So I guess, We'll call her 'S' And he, Will be called 'D' Apparently neither were thinking of me D licked candy off S's chest 'D' then played with S's breasts They knew it was wrong, at least she did But the crime was done, lied and cheated When they got home and asked if they had fun They glanced at each other and said 'Uh huh.' From the guilty look in their twinkling eyes I had a gut a feeling something wasn't right Did they really think they would get away with this? Sweep it under the rug? Throw a blanket over it? Well in my book those aren't the rules I don't play like that,
Grand old Canyon Mars on Earth Precursor to the rebirth Of more scenic terrains of passion We explore the umbilical union Two souls embedded with escapism Could we breathe the confined air? Necessities surge but a test You and I progressed Love is paramount As alive as Death Valley I guess the rains down in here Tormented and isolated… The soils are red as our rigid hearts The night skies were the curtain of Paradise… Could we excel on no man’s land? Far from over, Pyramid and the Sphinx… Proudest of the dessert Great Wall of China… A sign of loyalty Taj Mahal love prowess Leila and Majnun… Love tragic Dear…you’re manic! What’s the significance of those? Ain’t get enough of the trust? Make no mistake James Blunt singing ‘same mistake’ The song flows right to my heart I treated your internal wounds Like Oasis says ‘stop crying your heart out’ I lick your heartache spills Like Bonnie Tyler says ‘it’s a heartache’ I will hammer Greenland’s iceberg Nourishing your thirst for me I will swim rough waters of Cape of Good Hope Rescuing you from drowning I will brave Siberian’s winter Making an Igloo for us I will befriend the lost tribes of Amazon Telling them of our wedding day The lighthouse of Newfoundland Would welcome us as we ashore Greetings from fauna and flora Enchanting like morning dews dripping Welcoming two soul mates Dear…we’re manic Love as deep as Black Hole We float on the planetarium Jupiter would
BY the City Dead-House, by the gate, As idly sauntering, wending my way from the clangor, I curious pause--for lo! an outcast form, a poor dead prostitute brought; Her corpse they deposit unclaim'd--it lies on the damp brick pavement; The divine woman, her body--I see the Body--I look on it alone, That house once full of passion and beauty--all else I notice not; Nor stillness so cold, nor running water from faucet, nor odors morbific impress me; But the house alone--that wondrous house--that delicate fair house-- that ruin! That immortal house, more than all the rows of dwellings ever built! Or white-domed Capitol itself, with majestic figure surmounted--or all the old high-spired cathedrals; 10 That little house alone, more than them all--poor, desperate house! Fair, fearful wreck! tenement of a Soul! itself a Soul! Unclaim'd, avoided house! take one breath from my tremulous lips; Take one tear, dropt aside as I go, for thought of you, Dead house of love! house of madness and sin, crumbled! crush'd! House of life--erewhile talking and laughing--but ah, poor house! dead, even then; Months, years, an echoing, garnish'd house--but dead, dead, dead.
Now the stock have started dying, for the Lord has sent a drought; But we're sick of prayers and Providence -- we're going to do without; With the derricks up above us and the solid earth below, We are waiting at the lever for the word to let her go. Sinking down, deeper down, Oh, we'll sink it deeper down: As the drill is plugging downward at a thousand feet of level, If the Lord won't send us water, oh, we'll get it from the devil; Yes, we'll get it from the devil deeper down. Now, our engine's built in Glasgow by a very canny Scot, And he marked it twenty horse-power, but he don't know what is what: When Canadian Bill is firing with the sun-dried gidgee logs, She can equal thirty horses and a score or so of dogs. Sinking down, deeper down, Oh, we're going deeper down: If we fail to get the water, then it's ruin to the squatter, For the drought is on the station and the weather's growing hotter, But we're bound to get the water deeper down. But the shaft has started caving and the sinking's very slow, And the yellow rods are bending in the water down below, And the tubes are always jamming, and they can't be made to shift Till we nearly burst the engine with a forty horse-power lift. Sinking down, deeper down, Oh, we're going deeper down: Though the shaft is always caving, and the tubes are always
Some men there are who find in nature all Their inspiration, hers the sympathy Which spurs them on to any great endeavor, To them the fields and woods are closest friends, And they hold dear communion with the hills; The voice of waters soothes them with its fall, And the great winds bring healing in their sound. To them a city is a prison house Where pent up human forces labour and strive, Where beauty dwells not, driven forth by man; But where in winter they must live until Summer gives back the spaces of the hills. To me it is not so. I love the earth And all the gifts of her so lavish hand: Sunshine and flowers, rivers and rushing winds, Thick branches swaying in a winter storm, And moonlight playing in a boat's wide wake; But more than these, and much, ah, how much more, I love the very human heart of man. Above me spreads the hot, blue mid-day sky, Far down the hillside lies the sleeping lake Lazily reflecting back the sun, And scarcely ruffled by the little breeze Which wanders idly through the nodding ferns. The blue crest of the distant mountain, tops The green crest of the hill on which I sit; And it is summer, glorious, deep-toned summer, The very crown of nature's changing year When all her surging life is at its full. To me alone it is a time of pause, A void and silent space between two worlds, When
You made pasta for you and the kids I looked on longingly; pasta looks good, so very good, it is comfort food I dished up potatoes for myself, some meat, that was that – while you lot tucked into your great-looking pasta dish Too wonderful to describe – afterwards I promised myself just a very small bite, just to taste Just to remind me of what it’s like one bite led to another and another and another - I fell into temptation It was amazing… This morning I sit at my desk, doing my best to concentrate, but pain is taking my thoughts away You did not make the rule no pasta for me; you found it necessary to help me survive to keep pasta out of my life But I had to indulge, had to find out for myself; now once again, all the symptoms are back; stomach burning, ears aching Barbed wire in my head; a heart full of fears… the bane of my life is food, bread, the staple of life, pasta, fish, everything good I have to insist that I’m an alien life form, my digestive system was not made for this world, and I want to go back To wherever I came from, feeling so terribly sick, feeling so bad, feeling so guilty and sad; simply because I desired a morsel of Your lovely, lovely food; it must be a sign that I don’t belong on this earth; I must find the place of origin
Am i to be loved by you a day, and lost for your heart the other? Know that if you walked away, i will never love another.. Even if i killed my own heart, and stopped it from it's right to beat. I swear i'll tare it apart, if it longed to who is used to cheat. How have i ever fell for you? in no time you had all of me. How didn't i know what's true? that you never felt for me. And i saw more than a sign, but yet i stayed so in love. Thinking that you are mine, i flew all the skies above. And they told me but i didn't believe, it will end soon for it had no start. But i heard nothing, trying to achieve, the dream of my life to reach your heart. What was ever on my mind? if people lied to me, will so my eyes? How was i so blind? and hiding from all those lies. I guess that no words are enough, to describe the pain inside me. I thought i am your only love, and i'm your star and reverie. Can't help but to stare at you, and stare back at my weary life. Can't help but to hate you, and in this gale i won't survife. Love and hate and you and i, why did you have to lead me on? I can't believe those tears i cry, i can't believe i was never strong..
Brightly the sun of summer shone, Green fields and waving woods upon, And soft winds wandered by; Above, a sky of purest blue, Around, bright flowers of loveliest hue, Allured the gazer's eye. But what were all these charms to me, When one sweet breath of memory Came gently wafting by? I closed my eyes against the day, And called my willing soul away, From earth, and air, and sky; That I might simply fancy there One little flower -- a primrose fair, Just opening into sight; As in the days of infancy, An opening primrose seemed to me A source of strange delight. Sweet Memory! ever smile on me; Nature's chief beauties spring from thee, Oh, still thy tribute bring! Still make the golden crocus shine Among the flowers the most divine, The glory of the spring. Still in the wall-flower's fragrance dwell; And hover round the slight blue bell, My childhood's darling flower. Smile on the little daisy still, The buttercup's bright goblet fill With all thy former power. For ever hang thy dreamy spell Round mountain star and heather bell, And do not pass away From sparkling frost, or wreathed snow, And whisper when the wild winds blow, Or rippling waters play. Is childhood, then, so all divine? Or Memory, is the glory thine, That haloes thus the past? Not all divine; its pangs of grief, (Although, perchance, their stay be brief,) Are bitter while they last. Nor is the glory all thine own, For on our
"My times are in Thy hand." -- Psalm XXXI.15 Father, I know that all my life Is portioned out for me, And the changes that are sure to come, I do not fear to see; But I ask Thee for a present mind Intent on pleasing Thee. I ask Thee for a thoughtful love, Through constant watching wise, To meet the glad with joyful smiles, And to wipe the weeping eyes; And a heart at leisure from itself, To soothe and sympathise. I would not have the restless will That hurries to and fro, Seeking for some great thing to do Or secret thing to know; I would be treated as a child, And guided where I go. Wherever in the world I am, In whatsoe'er estate, I have a fellowship with hearts To keep and cultivate; And a work of lowly love to do For the Lord on whom I wait. So I ask Thee for the daily strength, To none that ask denied, And a mind to blend with outward life While keeping at Thy side; Content to fill a little space, If Thou be glorified. And if some things I do not ask, In my cup of blessing be, I would have my spirit filled the more With grateful love to Thee -- More careful -- not to serve Thee much, But to please Thee perfectly. There are briers besetting every path, That call for patient care; There is a cross in every lot, And an earnest
Round white clouds roll slowly above the housetops, Over the clear red roofs they flow and pass. A flock of pigeons rises with blue wings flashing, Rises with whistle of wings, hovers an instant, And settles slowly again on the tarnished grass. And one old man looks down from a dusty window And sees the pigeons circling about the fountain And desires once more to walk among those trees. Lovers walk in the noontime by that fountain. Pigeons dip their beaks to drink from the water. And soon the pond must freeze. The light wind blows to his ears a sound of laughter, Young men shuffle their feet, loaf in the sunlight; A girl's laugh rings like a silver bell. But clearer than all these sounds is a sound he hears More in his secret heart than in his ears,— A hammer's steady crescendo, like a knell. He hears the snarl of pineboards under the plane, The rhythmic saw, and then the hammer again,— Playing with delicate strokes that sombre scale . . . And the fountain dwindles, the sunlight seems to pale. Time is a dream, he thinks, a destroying dream; It lays great cities in dust, it fills the seas; It covers the face of beauty, and tumbles walls. Where was the woman he loved? Where was his youth? Where was the dream that burned his brain like fire? Even a dream grows grey at last and falls. He opened his book once more, beside the window, And
Sublime was the warning that liberty spoke, And grand was the moment when Spaniards awoke Into life and revenge from the conqueror's chain. Oh, Liberty! let not this spirit have rest, Till it move, like a breeze, o'er the waves of the west -- Give the light of your look to each sorrowing spot, Nor, oh, be the Shamrock of Erin forgot While you add to your garland the Olive of Spain. If the fame of our fathers, bequeathed with their rights, Give to country its charm, and to home its delights; If deceit be a wound, and suspicion a stain, Then, ye men of Iberia, our cause is the same! And oh! may his tomb want a tear and a name, Who would ask for a nobler, a holier death, Than to turn his last sigh into victory's breath, For the Shamrock of Erin and the Olive of Spain! Ye Blakes and O'Donnels, whose fathers resign'd The green hills of their youth, among strangers to find That repose which, at home, they had sigh'd for in vain, Join, join in our hope that the flame, which you light, May be felt yet in Erin, as calm and as bright, And forgive even Albion while blushing she draws, Like a truant, her sword, in the long-slighted cause Of the Shamrock of Erin and Olive of Spain! God prosper the cause! -- oh, it cannot but thrive, While the pulse of one patriot heart is alive, Its devotion to feel, and
I look at this girl before me She's familiar, yet unknown She's reaching out to touch me She's abandoned and alone She's living in a nightmare Her eyes are tightly shut She can't stand to see her pain Caused by those she used to trust She tries to speak, and cry for help But her words will not come out It's like nobody can hear her No matter how loud she shouts I'm the only one who understands The torture she's been through Her mind's been toyed and played with And her heart has been abused Now if her heart is broken Can I put it back in place? Can I wipe away the teardrops That are falling down her face? Can I erase the memories That are deep inside her mind? Can I take away the hurting That she's suffered all her life? And can I make her smile When all she does is frown? Can i pick her up and hold her When she's lying on the ground Can I hide her imperfections If they're all she ever sees? How do I tell her she's pretty If she doesn't know what it means? And if she wants to be alone Am I supposed to follow? How do I turn the light on If she's hidden in the shadow? And if she turns to walk away Do I try to pull her nearer? How do i help the person That I see inside the mirror?
When in the course of human events, we choose to go to war, why do we choose to do what we do. In the interest of a lasting peace, We will go into war, Has anyone ever simply asked what do we do it for? Can the answer possibly be as simple as this more dead bodies, and a few less grins. However it is very interesting to note, This time it is different, this is no Vietnam! We are not bogged down in the jungle, We are not fighting knee high in rice fields. This time the war has been brought To our very own home ground As the terrorists so insightfully knew, Americans swore to get even as our great WTC blew. Now the terrorists awakened a giant and with all of our might, We entered Afghanistan to put an end this fight, We started in Afghanistan, We are now headed to Iraq Why stop there are we all done? How about North Korea, Iran, or some place else? How can you ever know when we are through? Is it even possible to do what we are trying to do? Can you ever win, Or could you even loose, If you didn't do anything would that even do! This is the question about me or you, Do you really want to start a war that will end Sometime in our grand children's lifetime? Would a short war instead be better? My motives are pure, we have been under
Another search for Leichhardt's tomb, Though fifty years have fled Since Leichhardt vanished in the gloom, Our one Illustrious Dead! But daring men from Britain's shore, The fearless bulldog breed, Renew the fearful task once more, Determined to succeed. Rash men, that know not what they seek, Will find their courage tried. For things have changed on Cooper's Creek Since Ludwig Leichhardt died. Along where Leichhardt journeyed slow And toiled and starved in vain; These rash excursionists must go Per Queensland railway train. Out on those deserts lone and drear The fierce Australian black Will say -- "You show it pint o' beer, It show you Leichhardt track!" And loud from every squatter's door Each pioneering swell Will hear the wild pianos roar The strains of "Daisy Bell". The watchers in those forests vast Will see, at fall of night, Commercial travellers bounding past And darting out of sight. About their path a fearful fate Will hover always near. A dreadful scourge that lies in wait -- The Longreach Horehound Beer! And then, to crown this tale of guilt, They'll find some scurvy knave, Regardless of their quest, has built A pub on Leichhardt's grave! Ah, yes! Those British pioneers Had best at home abide, For things have changed in fifty years Since Ludwig Leichhardt died.
Cinderella in the street In a ragged gown, Sloven slippers on her feet, Shames our tidy town; Harsh her locks of ashen grey, Vapour vague her stare, By the curb this bitter day Selling papers there. Cinderella once was sweet, Fine and lily fair, Silver slippers on her feet, Ribands in her hair; Solid men besought her hand, Tart was she as quince, Living in a fairy land, Waiting for a Prince. Days went by and years went by, Wistful wan was she; Heedless of a mother's sigh, Of a lover's plea; On her lips a carol gay, In her heart a dream - Soon the Prince would come her way, Gallant and agleam. Then at last she learned the truth, How her hope was vain; Gone her beauty, gone her youth, Leaving want and pain. See! she's waiting all alone; Hark! you hear her cry Papers by the cold curb-stone, Begging you to buy. Winter winds are waxing chill, Clouds rack overhead; Cinderella will be ill, Bye and bye be dead. Yet she kept her vision clear, To Romance was true, Holding him forever dear Whom she never knew. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Cinderellas of to-day Take no chance of loss; When a good guy comes your way, Nail him to the cross. Let some ordinary cuss Your coy heart convince; Never miss the nuptial bus Waiting for a Prince.
Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King, Peace on earth and mercy mild, God and sinner reconcil'd. Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King. Joyful all ye nations rise, Join the triumph of the skies, With the angelic host proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem. Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King. Christ by highest Heaven ador'd, Christ the everlasting Lord! Late in time behold him come, Offspring of a virgin's womb. Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see, Hail, the incarnate Deity, Pleased as Man with man to dwell, Jesus our Immanuel! Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King. Hail the Heaven-born Prince of Peace! Hail the Sun of Righteousness! Light and life to all he brings, Risen with healing in his wings. Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King. Mild he lays his glory by, Born that man no more may die, Born to raise the sons of earth, Born to give them second birth. Hark! the herald Angels sing, Glory to the new-born King.
After 15 shots of whiskey I puked right on the floor Asked the bartender for another he said dont come back no more And then the mutant bouncers they grabbed me off my feet I barely put up a struggle as they threw me out onto the street Threw a rock right at there window and vomited once more I stumbled fell and crawled untill I bumped into this whore She said now sugar you dont look so good would you like to see my pink I said well maybe later but for now I need something to drink She pointed in the direction of a pub called running bull They'll pump you up with whiskey till your livers completely full With a prayer up to Saint Mary I made it miraculosly to the door And when that door had opened I seen something Ive never seen before I seen angels devils and lizards sharing bottles and singing song Each and every bottle was a Jameson so I knew that I belong I ordered a shot of Jameson the shot glass was as big as my head I asked if I died and went to heaven they said no son your not dead You had made it to your new favorite pub a place called running bull The only pub in new york city that will have your liver full
For all the mysteries, engines, instruments, wherewith the world is filled, which we are able to frame and use to thy glory. For all the trades, variety of operations, cities, temples, streets, bridges, mariner's compass, admirable picture, sculpture, writing, printing, songs and music; wherewith the world is beautified and adorned. Much more for the regent life, And power of perception, Which rules within. That secret depth of fathomless consideration That receives the information Of all our senses, That makes our centre equal to the heavens, And comprehendeth in itself the magnitude of the world; The involv'd mysteries Of our common sense; The inaccessible secret Of perceptive fancy; The repository and treasury Of things that are past; The presentation of things to come; Thy name be glorified For evermore. .... O miracle Of divine goodness! O fire! O flame of zeal, and love, and joy! Ev'n for our earthly bodies, hast thou created all things. { visible All things { material { sensible Animals, Vegetables, Minerals,< br>Bodies celestial, Bodies terrestrial, The four elements, Volatile spirits, Trees, herbs, and flowers, The influences of heaven, Clouds, vapors, wind, Dew, rain, hail and snow, Light and darkness, night and day, The seasons of the year. Springs, rivers, fountains, oceans, Gold, silver, and precious stones. Corn, wine, and oil, The sun, moon, and stars, Cities, nations, kingdoms. And the bodies of men, the greatest treasures of all, For each other. What then, O Lord, hast thou intended for our Souls, who givest to our bodies
Today I opened wide my eyes, And stared with wonder and surprise, To see beneath November skies An apple blossom peer; Upon a branch as bleak as night It gleamed exultant on my sight, A fairy beacon burning bright Of hope and cheer. 'Alas! ' said I, 'poor foolish thing, Have you mistaken this for Spring? Behold, the thrush has taken wing, And Winter's near.' Serene it seemed to lift its head: 'The Winter's wrath I do not dread, Because I am,' it proudly said, 'A Pioneer. 'Some apple blossom must be first, With beauty's urgency to burst Into a world for joy athirst, And so I dare; And I shall see what none shall see - December skies gloom over me, And mock them with my April glee, And fearless fare. 'And I shall hear what none shall hear - The hardy robin piping clear, The Storm King gallop dark and drear Across the sky; And I shall know what none shall know - The silent kisses of the snow, The Christmas candles' silver glow, Before I die. 'Then from your frost-gemmed window pane One morning you will look in vain, My smile of delicate disdain No more to see; But though I pass before my time, And perish in the grale and grime, Maybe you'll have a little rhyme To spare for me.'
My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER I sewed my heart up one little stich at a time One shotty job done, it is true, but I couldn't do it by myself, you coulda done the rest But you went and ripped it right outta my chest My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER I wasn't even finished I needed more thread I got distracted by the 'Good' ideas you put in my head My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER You remind me of my delicate past You remind me I'm good for nothing You tell me that you love me[lies] And remind me I wont be anything My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER You make me remeber what I've done Because you make me remember I have no friends You make me remeber It's all my fault For making my happiness end My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER My ice cold blood [you're not a warm-blooded creature] Your ice cold stare Is my HISTORY TEACHER
SWEET PICTURE of Life's chequer'd hour! Ah, wherefore droop thy blushing head? Tell me, oh tell me, hap'less flow'r, Is it because thy charms are fled? Come, gentle ROSE, and learn from me A lesson of Philosophy. Thy scented buds, LIFE'S joys disclose; They strew our paths with magic sweets; Where many a thorn like thine, fair ROSE, Full oft the weary wand'rer meets; And when he sees thy charms depart, He feels thy thorn within his heart. When Morn's bright torch illum'd the sky, Vainly thy flaunting buds display'd Enamell'd leaves of crimson die, Ill-fated blossoms doom'd to fade; So 'tis with BEAUTY, hapless flow'r, Its lustre blooms but for an hour. Come blushing ROSE, and on my breast Recline thy gentle head, and die; Thy scatter'd leaves shall there be press'd, Bath'd with a tear from PITY'S eye; There shall thy balmy sweets impart An essence grateful to my heart. Thus SYMPATHY, with lenient pow'r, Shall bid thy fading charms bestow Soft odours for life's happy hour, Kind, healing balsam for its woe! If such thy virtues, ROSE DIVINE! OH ! MAY THY ENVIED FATE BE MINE.
O Death, O Death, rock me asleep, Bring me to quiet rest; Let pass my weary guiltless ghost Out of my careful breast. Toll on, thou passing bell; Ring out my doleful knell; Thy sound my death abroad will tell, For I must die, There is no remedy. My pains, my pains, who can express? Alas, they are so strong! My dolours will not suffer strength My life for to prolong. Toll on, thou passing bell; Ring out my doleful knell; Thy sound my death abroad will tell, For I must die, There is no remedy. Alone, alone in prison strong I wail my destiny: Woe worth this cruel hap that I Must taste this misery! Toll on, thou passing bell; Ring out my doleful knell; Thy sound my death abroad will tell, For I must die, There is no remedy. Farewell, farewell, my pleasures past! Welcome, my present pain! I feel my torment so increase That life cannot remain. Cease now, thou passing bell, Ring out my doleful knoll, For thou my death dost tell: Lord, pity thou my soul! Death doth draw nigh, Sound dolefully: For now I die, I die, I die.
The love of a muse, The pen of an artist, This ink work will teach many yet unborn. This art is from a realm to guide you, This art work is like a mustard seed aroun you; It is original! It comes from a realm unknown; It will inspire you. This art is real to abstract your minds, The innovative nature of my mind to you all; It is the act of my dreams beyond imaginations! This art will teach many, It will inspire you all that love the muse. This art work, It is like a mustard seed; It will grow to give you joy! It is like the muse next door, It will touch and influence you; This art work ia sll that i have as an artist This art work is never known, It is called, 'Pen-Painting Graphics Abstracts'. This art will teach many, My innerself from the realm of imaginations! This art will teach you; But, the artist is never known. This art is from a realm to guide you into my heart, This art is from a realm to bring you into my world, This is the love of a sweet muse to you all; This art is from the pen of an artist who, Is yet to be known. This art is here to stay, This art is all that i have for you all; Cos', he who proves his skills proves his realms.
Young Love lies sleeping In May-time of the year, Among the lilies, Lapped in the tender light: White lambs come grazing, White doves come building there: And round about him The May-bushes are white. Soft moss the pillow For oh, a softer cheek; Broad leaves cast shadow Upon the heavy eyes: There wind and waters Grow lulled and scarcely speak; There twilight lingers The longest in the skies. Young Love lies dreaming; But who shall tell the dream? A perfect sunlight On rustling forest tips; Or perfect moonlight Upon a rippling stream; Or perfect silence, Or song of cherished lips. Burn odours round him To fill the drowsy air; Weave silent dances Around him to and fro; For oh, in waking The sights are no so fair, And song and silence Are not like these below. Young Love lies dreaming Till summer days are gone, - Dreaming and drowsing Away to perfect sleep: He sees the beauty Sun hath not looked upon, And tastes the fountain Unutterably deep. Him perfect music Doth hush unto his rest, And through the pauses The perfect silence calms: Oh, poor the voices Of earth from east to west, And poor earth's stillness Between her stately palms. Young Love lies drowsing Away to poppied death; Cool shadows deepen Across the sleeping face: So fails the summer With warm delicious breath; And what hath autumn To give us in its place? Draw close the curtains Of branched evergreen; Change cannot touch them With fading fingers sere:
God sits up in Heaven and laughs as the nations imagine a vain thing, For the internationalism of Jerusalem, is the song they seem to sing. And it is far from an original song that all the nations are singing, For God made Jerusalem the center of this world before their being. For God Himself purged the land of Canaan to be the land of the Jew, And He told Moses to prepare to worship at a place I will show you. But Moses never crossed the Jordan and was buried by God's own Hand, And Joshua took over to lead the Israelites into The Promised Land. And from the time of Moses through the Judges wherever the Jews went, The Ark of God's Covenant and the Glory of God remained under a tent. It was not until God gave Israel rest under King David their leader, That in the City God chose, he desired to make God a house of cedar. The City that God chose was Jerusalem, on which He placed His Name, For it is The City of David, and on it God's Name will always remain. God remembered His Promise to David, and his desire was not ignored, For God had told David's son Solomon to build a temple for The Lord. Then God consecrated this temple by putting His Name on it forever, And this promise to Solomon by God, He can not and He will not sever. So even though things look quite gloomy
moon, moon, crazy moon natural moon torn apart and snoozing moon; lovely moon, romantic moon poor poor moon the romance plucked out of its drab surface; moon moon going wild moon moon running away from the earth - O moon, why do you run away from the earth? does earth touch you in the wrong places and you've got no Body to which one could lodge a complaint about sexual harassment? ? ah, moon moon, temperamental moon dark moon glowing moon; sexy moon and old-woman hag of a moon; moon moon with the best views of the earth moon moon moon puts me to sleep and wakes me up in the middle of nights; and one day we'll sleep in the moon and produce babies there and we'll have the first moon-ish boys and girls and moon-ly families; but meanwhile moon moon driving fanatics and inspiring love and romance and myths moon moon eerie moon moon moon that presides over love and horrors and evil and good and naked witches dancing in moonlit groves; pooor moon moon the earth moon not as interesting and dramatic as other moons; don't get too friendly and dropp in - oh, never dropp in, no one invited you silly mooonn, no no, you're not invited home to earth moon moon cheese moon eaten by mice; but still our dear moon darling moon moon mooon our very own earth's moon as we moo moo like cows moo moo moo mooo at our own moon moon
For thy heart beats of pain. For it yearns for love Yet, love is not on the scale of gain. For thy heart is slowly beating away.. For the cries and heartache seems to never end For it is here to stay. Through thy hidden fears.. only thy cries speaks very loudly. For at one time..it was disguised with smiles very proudly. Yet, no one seems to notice the pain that grows inside of thee. For thy have kneeled on thines knees..asking... 'is this how it's gonna be? ' Trust Devotion and Love is not in the picture, For trine heart is broken and crushed into different measures and mixtures. For how thy pray to the heavens for love. For one can only wait for the answer from way up above. For thy love being in love.... but ones discovered that love don't love thee. For time has passed..love seems to hide from thee. How can this be? For one feels that love is not meant for thee. Hoping Wishing and Praying that love is for thee. Hopefully a miracle will come and open thy eyes..So thy can see that love is there for thee. But until then...thy' Love Being In Love.. But Love Don't Love Thee.' The End!
I am so lost, alone, and misguided... Where are the people I clung to? I wish today was yesterday, And so it seems the more days I live, The more I want to go back to tomorrow and be happy. Is this the prison I'm confined to, Hating today and constantly dreaming of the past? Am I to be miserable for the rest of my time here? Or will I take a chance... Will I do it again? Go out on a limb, Find someone to hold to, Someone to embrace and tell everything to, Someone I would trust and love? What will I do, what choice should I make? Life is so short and yet so complicated... Why can't I just be happy? Why can't I just be loved? Why is life so hurtful? Why do am I still putting up with it? Because I believe that there is love, Says one part of my mind to me. No matter what you'll find someone one, The one you're meant to be with. No, I say, you're mad, insane! You'll never find someone that will understand! Stop trying to be more than you are, You pathetic filth, you'll die alone! So what'll it be? What will you do? Take a chance and find love again, Or sulk in regrets of thing in the past? What to do, what to do, With your life ahead of you? Birth and Death, Two words but so much more in between...
Among the brambles of a shattered heart lies my soul in crags, Among the shambles of life torn apart lies my spirit in rags; Tears streaming down my face as snakes crawl on my body lifeless Leaving amigos and flamingos away at the home, oh life pointless. Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak! The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black. I climbed onto the gravel bed in the rain, lo lonely brain tames! By the dawn from the ocean to every lane, it climbs, dookie salad! In the noon from flat places to heaven and hell, A pensive ballad; At dusk, in open air of beach I loitered singing rhyme ugly James. Ticktock! All I can hear is ticking of the clock - yackety-yak! The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black. Hardy-har-har! Hold a pebble, a feather or a leaf in your hand It will say I am lonely; I can't ride, I want to hide in the sand; I'm single; oh my gosh! I'm sitting between my brother the mountain My sister the sea - together threesome we live among soulless men. Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak! The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black. I'm an air castle with dreams empty and screams plenty with terror I don't want to be alone in the dark in a spine-chilling horror. Then, the
They let the children out of school too early. I left the Christmas shopping till too late. Each day we had a holiday excursion, Which gave us the entire week to wait in line for Movies by Disney, Gift-wrapping by Lord & Taylor, And everyone's restrooms. On Christmas Eve we started to assemble The easy-to-assemble telescope And fire truck with forty-seven pieces. By midnight it was plain there was no hope without An astronomer, A mechanical engineer, And two psychiatrists. We rose at dawn to three boys singing Rudolph. We listened numbly to their shouts of glee. The kitten threw up tinsel on the carpet. The fire truck collided with the tree, requiring One rug shampoo, Several Band-aids, And Scotch before breakfast. I bought my husband shirts - wrong size, wrong colors, And ties he said he couldn't be caught dead in. I'd hinted Saint Laurent or something furry. He bought me flannel gowns to go to bed in, also A Teflon frying pan, A plaid valise, And The Weight Watchers Cook Book. The turkey was still frozen at eleven. At noon my eldest boy spilled Elmer's glue. At five I had a swell Excedrin headache, The kind that lasts till January two...but Merry Christmas And Happy New Year, I think.
the silver platter is what your family gives you your father makes it and you mother polishes it and you are given what you need in your life some fruits and bread and meat and water that you need in your journey when they start sending you away and when they finally leave you as what this world demands, the usual flow of life and the fading death, and you find yourself still thinking and coping and running and stopping and resting and running and walking and curling and stretching what is all there, then everything is consumed, the silver platter has nothing, tarnished and you begin to worry what used to be is not anymore, you think life ends just like that, no reality bites now, like a snake, or a rabid dog, and you despise the silver platter its lasting effect on you, how it made you weak and unthinking, complacent and unable to grow your trees and eat the fruits to raise your goats and eat their meat to live your own life and be strong yourself in the darkness that comes when you still want to play it is not too late, take the silver platter and throw it away or bury it lest another one comes and takes it and be another victim of its temporary glow that almost killed you
SISTER Simplicitie, Sing, sing a song to me, Sing me to sleep. Some legend low and long, Slow as the summer song Of the dull Deep. Some legend long and low, Whose equal ebb and flow To and fro creep On the dim marge of gray ’Tween the soul’s night and day, Washing “awake” away Into “asleep.” Some legend low and long, Never so weak or strong As to let go While it can hold this heart Withouten sigh or smart, Or as to hold this heart When it sighs “No.” Some long low swaying song, As the sway’d shadow long Sways to and fro Where, thro’ the crowing cocks, And by the swinging clocks, Some weary mother rocks Some weary woe. Sing up and down to me Like a dream-boat at sea, So, and still so, Float through the “then” and “when,” Rising from when to then, Sinking from then to when While the waves go. Low and high, high and low, Now and then, then and now, Mow, now; And when the now is then, and when the then is now, And when the low is high, and when the high is low, Low, low; Let me float, let the boat Go, go; Let me glide, let me slide Slow, slow; Gliding boat, sliding boat, Slow, slow; Glide away, slide away So, so.
Now two have met, now two have met, Who may not meet again— Two grains of sand, two blades of grass, Two threads within the skein— Beside the Great Grey Water. Two hands to touch, two hearts to touch; And, here forgathered, we Will not forget, may not forget, Where last forgathered three— Beyond the Great Grey Water. Two glasses filled, two pipes to fill— ‘To all our fortunes, brother!’ And as they clink—like so—we drink Fair passage to the other Across the Great Grey Water. For three have sailed, and one has sailed, His sins, like ours, still on him, God sleep his soul! five oceans roll Their long weight all upon him. O God! thy Great Grey Water! But I am still, and you are still, And here our chance has flung us; True comrades we, but…there were three And one is not among us Beside the Great Grey Water. A breathing space, a biding place, Soft lights and beakers beaded, Then out again and on again, Unminded and unheeded, Across the Great Grey Water. Now two have met where three have met With curses or with laughter; And so our Day shall pass away, And so our Night come after— But, ah! the Great Grey Water
why can't family be family again we used to always be friends we used to huddle together whenever we got scared we felt the warmth in one anothers arms because we knew the love was there we used to build forts out of whatever we had in our rooms and wage sars throwing pillows, books, and brooms we used to have mini mosh pits with just the four of us we headbanged and pushed we screamed and pretended to cuss we used to protect eachother we used to defend one another we used to stand together like brothers and sister when mom punished us we would all resist her we used to be a family a family that would always care we used to be a family with more happiness than despair we used to be a family that never hogged food or air we used to be a family that told eachother we were there we used to be a family a family that sat down toghether and ate we used to be a family full of our own ideas that we create we used to be a family that got along without debate we used to be a family with more love than hate so why can't family be family again and remember why those times were so good why can't family be family again and treat eachother the way we should why can't family be family again and throw the hate away why can't family be family
The largest stones are piled against the sea-wall since that huge storm, a hundred years ago. For the sea will never leave the beach alone – might you think it would fling the smallest stones the furthest? No – to re-assert its power, it challenges the heftiest resistance, with inexhaustible, ruthless determination rolling, thrusting, flinging in impatient storm the largest, furthest; then grading with such patient delicacy over the years, the smooth but fine-scratched stones of so many colours – how can it have found, how long for it to find, so many lucent colours of wet stone? These sometime finds – searching with a child’s fine eye – of purest pebbled marble - how many thousand miles has the sea rolled these from southern shores? And these smooth stones of reddest brick, or rubbed, etched glass? Or ancient serpentine, bright green? Then after a night of wildest storm, the air intoxicating with its ozone, new treasures thrown up on the beach: green glass globes from fishing nets, cork mats, boat wood, torn seaweed in thick chunks like beached, exhausted octopods; the beach re-shaped; even some parabolas of sand while the seethe… keesh… of the dying storm draws incessantly, then spews the finest shingle in its maw like a hungry concrete-mixer. The beach spreads out its shining, wet new treasure for the child-bright eye. This afternoon, the rock pools will be full; all will be new; sea-god a child again.
Let 'em come, by gum! That's all I say. Let me see one of 'em up this way, With their sacks a-back an' their walkin' boots Low neck, short-panted hikin' coots Flingin' their fags in the brambles here, Same as that other one done last year. He might just once; but he won't no more. I'll nail his hide to the cow-shed door. A mile o' fencin' and two good hust All thro' them an' their lighted butts. Patronisin'? You're too dead right. These city fellers is awful bright Three good huts an' a mile o' fence! 'Tisn't so much me own expense; Three mile o' forest gone up in smoke! Well, ain't it enough to nark a bloke? The worst they done was in ninety-five. Poor ole Ben Bray, he'd still be alive It if wasn't for that camp-fire they left. But a burnt-out-home an' the kids bereft Of their dad. Yes; that was the toll that day; An' the fellers what done it miles away. Oh, there's fools in the forest as well as town. I ain't lettin' none o' me neighbors down. There's fools in the forests, as well I knows; Chancin' a burn when the north wind blows. An' they oughter be pinched . . . But them city skites, Suckin' their fags an' strikin' their lights! Just let me catch 'em! Vindictive? Me? Ropeable, am I? Well, wouldn't you be If you suffered the same from their smokin' butts? Three mile o' fencin' an' four
As usual, I was browsing internet In my computer sitting adjacent to the hall window, about nine O’ clock! Within the glance of my eyes on left side, I noticed something wriggling outer side Closer to the compound wall inner side! Shocked to see a snake moving forward steadily I went out of my house through back door carefully Taking a long wooden broad stick to beat it! Hearing my approaching sound, the baby snake turned around I wanted to beat and kill it! Since I noticed it is only a week old, I felt whether to leave it to reach its mother safely Or to kill, not to give chance to come back frequently! But while it is moving carefully, It raised its head very slightly, Spreading its hood so gently! Warning me every now and then, Hey, be careful! I am a baby cobra! I understood now it is a baby cobra! I didn't try to beat it, Is it due to fear? Is it due to sympathy? While I was not deciding, It went through crevices Between the cement slabs! To visit my brother’s house next day next door, since firmly I closed the crevice!
It is spoken man is born equal and free To a degree the world disagrees Some foresee what others cannot see Freedom is walking away with glee We have a right to Christmas with a tree We have a right to enjoy a shopping spree We have a right to travel the land and the sea We have the right to an educational degree Stop the silly talking Whilst Freedom is walking Freedom is not a jubilee Freedom is not a guarantee Who says Freedom is free? It is spoken man is free of thought Without the need to fear higher courts Some have spoken and finally resorted To hide their thoughts from being reported We have a right to a chosen culture We have a right not to be tortured We have a right to nationality and security We have a right to be part of a minority Stop the silly talking Whilst Freedom is walking Freedom is not part of community Freedom is never an informality Who says Freedom is immunity? We want opinion without distinction We want a world without discrimination We want a kingdom of utter freedom We want it in all shapes and form Stop the silly talking Whilst Freedom is walking Stop the silly talking Whilst Freedom is mocking www.sylviachidi.co.uk
What is this feeling within my heart; Concealed by daylight hours, in a shroud of taut restraint. Winter evenings consume, yesterdays pursue me, Smiling, speaking, acting – I can cope, I can cope…. An injured heart bares healing in the nearness of love, Yet love becomes frigid when winter sweeps in, I am alone. The world is cold, my heart laments in fearful silence Winter, winter, where are your friends? , Betrayed by the sheath of night, rejoicing in decay In scornful silence, reflecting on unfulfilled dreams, Dreading the night, enduring the day. Winter. Hopes and Dreams, rest upon a cradle of love, Unconditional, fruitful, forbearing, eternal, Winter steals, freezes, and denies. To be alone in this season, is to be alone, No voices, no echoes, no gentle memories shared. A solitary tree yielding to an unfeeling winter, Surrendering its leaves to winters steel sky. Fleeting Sunshine, stolen, lacking of kindness, or warmth Sheets of invasive rain, such unforgiving indifference Winter is reconciliation without forgiveness Yet, it is the door to Spring, and the resurrection of hope.
A man roams the streets with a basket of freestone peaches hollering, "Peaches, peaches, yellow freestone peaches for sale." My grandfather in his prime could outshout the Tigers of Wrath or the factory whistles along the river. Hamtramck hungered for yellow freestone peaches, downriver wakened from a dream of work, Zug Island danced into the bright day glad to be alive. Full-figured women in their negligees streamed into the streets from the dark doorways to demand in Polish or Armenian the ripened offerings of this new world. Josef Prisckulnick out of Dubrovitsa to Detroit by way of Ellis Island raised himself regally to his full height of five feet two and transacted until the fruit was gone into those eager hands. Thus would there be a letter sent across an ocean and a continent, and thus would Sadie waken to the news of wealth without limit in the bright and distant land, and thus bags were packed and she set sail for America. Some of this is true. The women were gaunt. All day the kids dug in the back lots searching for anything. The place was Russia with another name. Joe was five feet two. Dubrovitsa burned to gray ashes the west wind carried off, then Rovno went, then the Dnieper turned to dust. We sat around the table telling lies while the late light filled an empty glass. Bread, onions, the smell of burning butter, small white potatoes we shared with no one because the hour was wrong,
How still, how happy! Those are words That once would scarce agree together; I loved the plashing of the surge - The changing heaven the breezy weather, More than smooth seas and cloudless skies And solemn, soothing, softened airs That in the forest woke no sighs And from the green spray shook no tears. How still, how happy! now I feel Where silence dwells is sweeter far Than laughing mirth's most joyous swell However pure its raptures are. Come, sit down on this sunny stone: 'Tis wintry light o'er flowerless moors - But sit - for we are all alone And clear expand heaven's breathless shores. I could think in the withered grass Spring's budding wreaths we might discern; The violet's eye might shyly flash And young leaves shoot among the fern. It is but thought - full many a night The snow shall clothe those hills afar And storms shall add a drearier blight And winds shall wage a wilder war, Before the lark may herald in Fresh foliage twined with blossoms fair And summer days again begin Their glory - haloed crown to wear. Yet my heart loves December's smile As much as July's golden beam; Then let us sit and watch the while The blue ice curdling on the stream -
All out of doors looked darkly in at him Through the thin frost, almost in separate stars, That gathers on the pane in empty rooms. What kept his eyes from giving back the gaze Was the lamp tilted near them in his hand. What kept him from remembering what it was That brought him to that creaking room was age. He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss. And having scared the cellar under him In clomping there, he scared it once again In clomping off; -- and scared the outer night, Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roar Of trees and crack of branches, common things, But nothing so like beating on a box. A light he was to no one but himself Where now he sat, concerned with he knew what, A quiet light, and then not even that. He consigned to the moon, such as she was, So late-arising, to the broken moon As better than the sun in any case For such a charge, his snow upon the roof, His icicles along the wall to keep; And slept. The log that shifted with a jolt Once in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted, And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept. One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house, A farm, a countryside, or if he can, It's thus he does it of a winter night.
Sincere thanks to the Africans who, Made us proud at the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games; For there their talents were exposed to the world. Thanks to Kenya who got the total of 14 medals: Made up of 5 Gold medals,5 Silver medals and 4 Bronze medals. Thanks to Ethiopia who got the total of 7 medals: Made up of 4 Gold medals, a Silver medal and 2 Bronze medals. Thanks to Zimbabwe who got the total of 4 medals: Made up of a Gold medal and 3 Silver medals. Thanks to Cameroon who got a single Gold medal, Thanks to Tunisia who got a single Gold medal, Thanks to Nigeria who got the total of 4 medals: Made up of a Silver medal and 3 Bronze medals. Thanks to Algeria who got 2 medals: Made up of a Silver medal and a Bronze medal. Thanks to Morocco who got 2 medals: Made up of a Siver medal and a Bronze medal. THanks to South Africa who got a single Silver medal, Thanks to Sudan who got a single Silver medal, Thanks to Egypt who got a single Bronze medal, Thanks to Mauritius who got a single Bronze medal, And tanks to Togo who also got a single Bronze medal. You've really made Africa proud and we do thank you all!
At least spare a thought for the children the children of Poverty Street They are homeless as young teenagers and against the odds they must compete Their parents serving time for robbery and narcotic offences and most of their role models in jail Their circumstance of birth is a huge mark against them the poor young people destined to fail. They steal for to buy food, drugs and alcohol on Poverty Street life is tough Too young much too young to be homeless without shelter and sleeping rough They are pushed to the social fringes the young people society disown Ignored by the Government Bureaucracies and to the Police only known. Who could envy them their existence those born into cruel circumstance The Gods are completely against them of success they do not stand a chance For them life is such a great battle they must battle their ghosts of despair They don't even dream of the good life to them life is very unfair. You who waffle on of life's choices with you talk is always so cheap Bet you were not homeless at thirteen and on a park bench had to sleep You would not talk of life's choices if you had to steal for to eat If you felt alone and abandoned like the children of Poverty Street.
Beauty is warm and cold Beauty is black and bold Beauty is different for us all I am told Beauty I would love a chance to mould Beauty gives the finest pleasure I am told Beauty can be bought and sold To the one and only highest bidder While it graciously glitters like gold I adore beauty Oh! How I adore beauty with a passion I adore beauty with every last breath Beauty itself is not exempt From the laws of birth and death It experiences the joys of being young and old Blossoming each day in early youth Maturing adoringly each day with age Behold, I adore beauty Oh! How I adore beauty with a passion Beauty is something I would like to hold Where there is too much ugly I can bring it out of a drawer and unfold Spread it around the entire household Without worrying about getting a scold Behold, I adore beauty Oh! How I adore beauty When out on a nightie Quite hungry and thirsty And you drink the last drops of milk From a beautiful chest that is busty I would say, that itself is a faculty of beauty Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Can I see another's woe, And not be in sorrow too? Can I see another's grief, And not seek for kind relief? Can I see a falling tear, And not feel my sorrow's share? Can a father see his child Weep, nor be with sorrow filled? Can a mother sit and hear An infant groan, an infant fear? No, no! never can it be! Never, never can it be! And can He who smiles on all Hear the wren with sorrows small, Hear the small bird's grief and care, Hear the woes that infants bear -- And not sit beside the next, Pouring pity in their breast, And not sit the cradle near, Weeping tear on infant's tear? And not sit both night and day, Wiping all our tears away? Oh no! never can it be! Never, never can it be! He doth give his joy to all: He becomes an infant small, He becomes a man of woe, He doth feel the sorrow too. Think not thou canst sigh a sigh, And thy Maker is not by: Think not thou canst weep a tear, And thy Maker is not year. Oh He gives to us his joy, That our grief He may destroy: Till our grief is fled an gone He doth sit by us and moan.
1 I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair, 2 Borne, like a vapor, on the summer air; 3 I see her tripping where the bright streams play, 4 Happy as the daisies that dance on her way. 5 Many were the wild notes her merry voice would pour. 6 Many were the blithe birds that warbled them o'er: 7 Oh! I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair, 8 Floating, like a vapor, on the soft summer air. 9 I long for Jeanie with the daydawn smile, 10 Radiant in gladness, warm with winning guile; 11 I hear her melodies, like joys gone by, 12 Sighing round my heart o'er the fond hopes that die: -- 13 Sighing like the night wind and sobbing like the rain, -- 14 Wailing for the lost one that comes not again: 15 Oh! I long for Jeanie, and my heart bows low, 16 Never more to find her where the bright waters flow. 17 I sigh for Jeanie, but her light form strayed 18 Far from the fond hearts round her native glade; 19 Her smiles have vanished and her sweet songs flown, 20 Flitting like the dreams that have cheered us and gone. 21 Now the nodding wild flowers may wither on the shore 22 While her gentle fingers will cull them no more: 23 Oh! I sigh for Jeanie with the light brown hair, 24 Floating, like a vapor, on the soft summer air.
Out at Woodruff Place--afar From the city's glare and jar, With the leafy trees, instead Of the awnings, overhead; With the shadows cool and sweet, For the fever of the street; With the silence, like a prayer, Breathing round us everywhere. Gracious anchorage, at last, From the billows of the vast Tide of life that comes and goes, Whence and where nobody knows-- Moving, like a skeptic's thought, Out of nowhere into naught. Touch and tame us with thy grace, Placid calm of Woodruff Place! Weave a wreath of beechen leaves For the brow that throbs and grieves O'er the ledger, bloody-lined, 'Neath the sun-struck window-blind! Send the breath of woodland bloom Through the sick man's prison room, Till his old farm-home shall swim Sweet in mind to hearten him! Out at Woodruff Place the Muse Dips her sandal in the dews, Sacredly as night and dawn Baptize lilied grove and lawn: Woody path, or paven way-- She doth haunt them night and day,-- Sun or moonlight through the trees, To her eyes, are melodies. Swinging lanterns, twinkling clear Through night-scenes, are songs to her-- Tinted lilts and choiring hues, Blent with children's glad halloos; Then belated lays that fade Into midnight's serenade-- Vine-like words and zithern-strings Twined through ali her slumberings. Blessed be each hearthstone set Neighboring the violet! Blessed every rooftree prayed Over by the beech's shadel Blessed doorway, opening where We may look on Nature--there Hand to hand and face to face-- Storied realm, or Woodruff Place.
Rome never looks where she treads. Always her heavy hooves fall On our stomachs, our hearts or our heads; And Rome never heeds when we bawl. Her sentries pass on--that is all, And we gather behind them in hordes, And plot to reconquer the Wall, With only our tongues for our swords. We are the Little Folk--we! Too little to love or to hate. Leave us alone and you'll see How we can drag down the State! We are the worm in the wood! We are the rot at the root! We are the taint in the blood! We are the thorn in the foot! Mistletoe killing an oak-- Rats gnawing cables in two-- Moths making holes in a cloak-- How they must love what they do! Yes--and we Little Folk too, We are busy as they-- Working our works out of view-- Watch, and you'll see it some day! No indeed! We are not strong, But we know Peoples that are. Yes, and we'll guide them along To smash and destroy you in War! We shall be slaves just the same? Yes, we have always been slaves, But you--you will die of the shame, And then we shall dance on your graves! We are the Little Folk, we, etc.
SUPER BOWL FOOTBALL The stands are full of eager fans Who say, we're paid too much money! But if they would put our suits on They'd find football isn't funny. Twenty-two men and five referees Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball. Mashing and bashing all the way Till the striped shirts whistle their call. All the generals on the sideline Are waging their athletic war. And the letters in the words they use Never amount to more than four. There's no substitute for winning And no excuse for losing. Though after games; when we can't sleep It's because of all the bruising. AMERICAN SOLDIER POEM It’s not a priest that gives us our freedom of religion And it’s not a reporter that gives us our freedom of voice. It’s not any judge, lawyer, politician, or teacher But the blood of a soldier that has sacrificed by choice. Our soldiers line up to be remembered As the best of the best at their job. They wish to be needed and depended on To save all we love from the mob. They risk their life and limb for liberty Standing firm against evil unwilling to break. To be part of something greater than themselves They are willing to sacrifice whatever it will take. Tom Zart’s 601 Poems Are Free To Share To Teach Or Show Love And Support! By God’s Poet Tom Zart Most Published Poet On The Web! To Listen To Tom Zart’s Poems Go To = http: //new.pivtr.com/en/? schedule/tom-zart/ www.billcrain.net/?
Dare I hope to hope? Is it safe? Is it right? Am I hoping for nothing But a black and empty night? Hope should make me happy. I should laugh, sing, and dance Because I am hoping. Right? Ha! Not a chance. How is it that hope can leave me Trembling in the darkness? How is it that something so “good” Should leave me feeling helpless? Dare I hope to hope? What difference does it make? Fate will be fate in the end, It will either “make or break.” Does Fate regard my hope? Does She listen? Or care? Am I shooting for a star that Simply isn’t there? I cannot know! Oh, God Why must I struggle with This doubt that pulls at me Rends me, limb from limb? What sort of hope leaves pain Where it should instead leave joy? Is this hope at all? Or perhaps Some wicked demon’s ploy? I cannot know! Dear heaven! How can I even begin to dare To hope for something – anything? Is no assurance there? No promise? No guarantee? I cannot stand it! I cannot! The doubt is a plague In my every thought. Dare I hope to hope In a hope that leaves me dry And lost? How can I dare To hope in hope? How can I?
I Laugh at Life: its antics make for me a giddy games, Where only foolish fellows take themselves with solemn aim. I laugh at pomp and vanity, at riches, rank and pride; At social inanity, at swager, swank and side. At poets, pastry-cooks and kings, at folk sublime and small, Who fuss about a thousand things that matter not at all; At those who dream of name and fame, at those who scheme for pelf. . . . But best of all the laughing game - is laughing at myself. Some poet chap had labelled man the noblest work of God: I see myself a charlatan, a humbug and a fraud. Yea, 'spite of show and shallow wit, an sentimental drool, I know myself a hypocrite, a coward and a fool. And though I kick myself with glee profoundly on the pants, I'm little worse, it seems to me, than other human ants. For if you probe your private mind, impervious to shame, Oh, Gentle Reader, you may find you're much about the same. Then let us mock with ancient mirth this comic, cosmic plan; The stars are laughing at the earth; God's greatest joke is man. For laughter is a buckler bright, and scorn a shining spear; So let us laugh with all our might at folly, fraud and fear. Yet on our sorry selves be spent our most sardonic glee. Oh don't pay life a compliment to take is seriously. For he who can himself despise, be surgeon
The night rain sing the song To benumb my soul all along. Grief breaks heart's fence Over the hills of silence The song of despair! Floats everywhere in air The song of despair Floats everywhere; Till the depth of heart's creek To cascade tears through the cheek. One's heart becomes stone-dead When their most loved left its stead. Eyes then lost fore'er its shine, Nothing will follow there but a shadow; The only crony I've to say as mine To walk with me in this despair-meadow. Once in a medow of love I walked With my lover and we stalked Holding her hand in my wrist, Holding my hand around her waist. We woven the wings of dreams And built castles on streams Life was an ever opened book Where the moments of love we took, To draw the most beautiful pictures on its pages As our hearts were one as a land with no rages Everytime the hands of destiny write its word The golden pages of life was engulfed by rust That made the glitter of love blurred, Eyes scatter the seeds of despair in dust No one knows what's destiny, Until they feel what's despair!
Armed with aptitude, ambition, ability; being yourself all the time; carrying calmness of mind and clarity of thought; dressed in desire, determination, discipline and dedication; enveloped in effulgence, empathy and enthusiasm; fired by faith and fervor and graced by gratitude and good health. Hard work, honesty and humility, intellect, intuition, indefatigable passion and joie de vivre – all these being your friends always. Kindness in thought, word and deed and laziness always kept at bay. Making the most of your time, never thinking of ever giving up or being afraid of taking a risk, putting your heart, mind and soul into everything, questioning yourself all the time and rectifying mistakes made along the way. Self-confidence and a strong desire to make it to the finish line… using whatever resources available and vocalizing only positive thoughts. When things don’t seem to go your way, (e) xtraordinary patience and perseverance will pay. You will see in the end that zenith is not too far away. Geeta Ashok 7/9/2010 5 pm
My childhood was fun, tough and exciting. My childhood was one where there wasn't much fighting. This was my childhood. My childhood was filled with family and friends. My childhood was filled with love that tied up loose ends. This was my childhood. My childhood came with a grandmother that cared. When she left me I remembered all the times we shared. This was my childhood. My childhood was filled with classwork and homework. My childhood was filled with parents who hated work. This was my childhood. My childhood was filled with fun in the hood, and food that tasted like Campbell's, 'Umm Umm Good! ' This was my childhood. My childhood was filled with tricycles and bicycles. My childhood was filled with popsicles and Dill pickles. This was my childhood. My childhood was filled with lots of happy holidays. Holidays that aren't just the same nowadays. This was my childhood. Now my childhood has become nothing but memories, But all the good times will live on within me. This was my childhood.
They can be Ph.D. guides or supervisors But I cannot be As it is not in my lot, They can be Ph.D. guides or supervisors But I cannot As because they in universities And I in a small town but govt.-salaried college. They without the research experience can be But I cannot be a Ph.D. guide And even if, I shall have to be in a look out For probable research candidates And they too like to approach those Who have a control over the university staff Otherwise the technicalities will prove burdensome Than their Ph.D. guidance. Even after writing a few, many have moved to foreign As for guest faculties, Fellowship programmes and teaching assignments But they are not the best, As something depends on one's good luck too, Something as destiny too draws it close, You may call it fate too. What do you want from me, what to give, you say it, I worked on Nissim Ezekiel, Jayanta Mahahpatra and Adil Jussawalla, I worked on Khushwant singh's columns, I worked on the novels and short stories of D.H.Lawrence, On his sketches, letters, prose-pieces and reviews, I worked on contemporary Indian English poetry And the history and tradition of it, I worked on the terracotta temples of Chandrakona, Dilapidating and falling, the limsestone powder and small brick built And what do you want me to do?
A lion sunk by time's decay, Too feeble grown to hunt his prey, Observed his fatal hour draw nigh: He drooped and laid him down to die. There came by chance a savage boar, Who trembled oft to hear him roar, But when he saw him thus distressed He tore and gored his royal breast. A bull came next (ungen'rous foe), Rejoiced to find him fall'n so low, And with his horny-armed head He aimed at once to strike him dead, - He strikes, he wounds, he shocks in vain, The lion still conceals his pain. At length a base inglorious ass, Who saw so many insults pass, Came up and kicked him in the side: 'Twas this that raised the lion's pride. He roused, and thus he spoke at length, For indignation gave him strength: Thou sorry, stupid, sluggish creature, Disgrace and shame and scorn of nature! You saw how well I could dispense With blows from beasts of consequence! They dignified the wounds they gave; For none complain who feel the brave. But you, the lowest of all brutes, How ill your face with courage suits! What dullness in thy looks appears! I'd rather far (by heav'n 'tis true) Expire by these than live by you: A kick from thee is double death - I curse thee with my dying breath! The Moral Rebukes are easy from our betters, From men of quality and letters; But when low dunces will affront, What man alive can stand the brunt?
There are songs for the morning and songs for the night, For sunrise and sunset, the stars and the moon; But who will give praise to the fulness of light, And sing us a song of the glory of noon? Oh, the high noon, the clear noon, The noon with golden crest; When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns With his face to the way of the west! How swiftly he rose in the dawn of his strength; How slowly he crept as the morning wore by; Ah, steep was the climbing that led him at length To the height of his throne in the wide summer sky. Oh, the long toil, the slow toil, The toil that may not rest, Till the sun looks down from his journey's crown, To the wonderful way of the west! Then a quietness falls over meadow and hill, The wings of the wind in the forest are furled, The river runs softly, the birds are all still, The workers are resting all over the world. Oh, the good hour, the kind hour, The hour that calms the breast! Little inn half-way on the road of the day, Where it follows the turn to the west! There's a plentiful feast in the maple-tree shade, The lilt of a song to an old-fashioned tune, The talk of a friend, or the kiss of a maid, To sweeten the cup that we drink to the noon. Oh, the deep noon, the full noon,
I remember Mama blowing chewing gum bubbles to entertain us while she ironed. I was too young for school Sesame Street wasn’t invented yet the rain was pouring outside and I was awed. I remember Mama sewing at her machine into the night when she had to get up early for work patching a favorite pair of cutoffs just one more time or putting pockets on pants because my little brother adored them and I still hear her words ‘There’s all kinds of ways to say I love you.’ I remember Mama teaching us that beauty on the inside was more important than on the outside. ‘A kind word to a stranger might be the only kind word that person heard all day’ ... and how good it felt finding out she was right. I remember Mama telling us to hold onto our dreams. Make them happen and never say ‘I can’t’ and how funny I thought it when she said the world was our watermelon and all we had to do was grab it and take a bite. I remember Mama who taught us best by example with her unconditional love. Love isn’t love until it’s given away and it’s in the giving that we know it truly does come back ten-fold. I remember, Mama.
SWIFTLY walk o'er the western wave, Spirit of Night! Out of the misty eastern cave,-- Where, all the long and lone daylight, Thou wovest dreams of joy and fear Which make thee terrible and dear,-- Swift be thy flight! Wrap thy form in a mantle grey, Star-inwrought! Blind with thine hair the eyes of Day; Kiss her until she be wearied out. Then wander o'er city and sea and land, Touching all with thine opiate wand-- Come, long-sought! When I arose and saw the dawn, I sigh'd for thee; When light rode high, and the dew was gone, And noon lay heavy on flower and tree, And the weary Day turn'd to his rest, Lingering like an unloved guest, I sigh'd for thee. Thy brother Death came, and cried, 'Wouldst thou me?' Thy sweet child Sleep, the filmy-eyed, Murmur'd like a noontide bee, 'Shall I nestle near thy side? Wouldst thou me?'--And I replied, 'No, not thee!' Death will come when thou art dead, Soon, too soon-- Sleep will come when thou art fled. Of neither would I ask the boon I ask of thee, beloved Night-- Swift be thine approaching flight, Come soon, soon!
Yes, I am THAT kid... The crazy kid... The kid who says whatever they want Without thought to anyone Get in my way, I'll spit on your shoe! There's nothing I care about when it comes to you... Or is there? Because behind every person there is a soul And some of us are leaders, And some of us are lost Me? I'm a lost leader! Leading others into lost with me, Like getting lost is the new trend Don't know who you are? No ambition? That's cool. Because that seems to be the 'in' thing these days... Getting lost... It's cool Cool to be stupid, cool to be confused, Cool to look to something outside yourself Something else to abuse Something to set. you. straight. To make your head EXPLODE! Cause that's what it's all about. Making the next big bang Without no one seeing it Then crying how no one notices you You know what you do then? Ask for a pill Go ahead. Ask. They're everywhere! You can't stop in the street Without a pill beneath your feet Or a heart that doesn't beat With a medicated meat So desert your dreams Let go of ambition To become lost and crazy Is today's only mission
The sound of laughter is a thing of beauty for laughter spreads the very gift of joy That people they are drawn to happy people is not that hard for to understand why Since everybody wishes to be happy and laughter it spreads happiness around And only the heartless could not like the sound of laughter for laughter is a very happy sound, Than laughter there is no more happy feeling laugh and the World laughs with you seems so true But if you feel sad and for yourself feeling sorry the saddest person in the World is you Even your friends would rather not be with you if they see you as one who worship gloom The happy people attract people to them and in their presence happiness does bloom, The sound of laughter sends out laughter ripples it is a sound one always loves to hear And laughter it gives rise to smiling faces and never fails to fill the cup of cheer The sad one who feels comfort in self pity is the one others do not wish to know But if you are one who laughs away your worries your friends in numbers seem to grow and grow And who could not but love the sound of laughter to it there always is a joyful ring It seems to send happiness out in ripples it is a joyful and infectious thing.
In a great deal of discomfort and pain. having to stand after boarding the train. I tried to be as pleasant looking as could be. Didn’t want anyone to realize, there was something wrong with me. Ointments, salve, herb remedies and more. Nothing seemed to work, from the health store. I just couldn’t take it any longer, had to find something stronger. Mixed a few items and made a potion. Wished I had just gone down to the ocean. An appointment was made with a Chinese Doctor, a referral from a very good friend. His facial expression showed concern, He closed his eyes and raised his head. To my surprise, he smiled and said, This area is angry and burning red. What I have to say to you is simple and proved to be true. Bathe the area with running water, Come back and see me in seven days. With this treatment, you will be amazed. I did just as the Doctor ordered, of course. His prescription was made very clear. I continued to bathe the area with water. No pills, no powders, no cream or oils. Amazingly, the pain and stinging was gone. No sign the angry problem ever existed. This Doctor taught me a great lesson. Look at what nature has in store, Find yourself God’s natural cure.
Wise words from a wise old fellow for as long as I live I'll recall He said if you are a Racist to one Race then you are a racist to all You cannot be a racist to one Race and claim you are not racist in any way Few racists like to be called racist we are not racist you hear them say. Racism is born of ignorance and ignorance we know to the ignorant is bliss That difference make people more interesting the point of that some seem to miss Our days can be measured in minutes and our lives can be measured in hours And those we look on as different their blood is no less red than ours. When some people talk of a fair go they do not mean a fair go for all But a fair go for their own kind only in their ways some are very small People should not be disadvantaged due to their place of birth or their Race In the Human World of the future for such there will not be a place. That I do pity those who are racist may seem quite a strange thing to say In the darkness they surround themselves with they seem to be losing their way In shaping the future of the Human World any part they are not destined to play Their thinking it does seem outdated in the multicultural World of today.
Down by the river we did go hand in hand in a lovers hold Momma and daddy said this is a love that can not grow and he must go But momma an daddy i love him so. you stay with him then you must go . don't make me chose for i love you too Down by the river we did go hand in hand in a lovers hold Momma and daddy you dont know, His love for me is pure as gold Theres something you two must know. Down by the river we did go hand in hand in a lover hold Raining so hard we could hardly see We slow danced by the rivers edge He said no other could love you like i Then i slipped an fell and the river took me away I fought the river but the river won Then a bright light shined Saw an angel reaching for me Momma an daddy you dont know When my eyes open this is what i seen .Had been pulled from river laid me upon the shore Blanket of white feathers were keeping me warm As he stood with tear filled eyes A bright light shine And upond his back were angel wings .He said God sent me here to love you Momma and daddy you dont know. My choice is with him now i go For oneday i'll have my own angel wings And will never let him go. Momma and daddy you dont
O thou Most High who rulest all And hear'st the prayers of thine, O hearken, Lord, unto my suit And my petition sign. Into Thy everlasting arms Of mercy I commend Thy servant, Lord. Keep and preserve My husband, my dear friend. At Thy command, O Lord, he went, Nor nought could keep him back. Then let Thy promise joy his heart, O help and be not slack. Uphold my heart in Thee, O God. Thou art my strength and stay, Thou see'st how weak and frail I am, Hide not Thy face away. I in obedience to Thy will Thou knowest did submit. It was my duty so to do; O Lord, accept of it. Unthankfulness for mercies past Impute Thou not to me. O Lord, Thou know'st my weak desire Was to sing praise to Thee. Lord, be Thou pilot to the ship And send them prosperous gales. In storms and sickness, Lord, preserve. Thy goodness never fails. Unto Thy work he hath in hand Lord, grant Thou good success And favour in their eyes to whom He shall make his address. Remember, Lord, Thy folk whom Thou To wilderness hast brought; Let not Thine own inheritance Be sold away for nought. But tokens of Thy favour give, With joy send back my dear That I and all Thy servants may Rejoice with heavenly cheer. Lord, let my eyes see once again Him whom Thou gavest me That we together may sing praise Forever unto Thee. And the
I. Just for a handful of silver he left us, Just for a riband to stick in his coat--- Found the one gift of which fortune bereft us, Lost all the others she lets us devote; They, with the gold to give, doled him out silver, So much was theirs who so little allowed: How all our copper had gone for his service! Rags---were they purple, his heart had been proud! We that had loved him so, followed him, honoured him, Lived in his mild and magnificent eye, Learned his great language, caught his clear accents, Made him our pattern to live and to die! Shakespeare was of us, Milton was for us, Burns, Shelley, were with us,---they watch from their graves! He alone breaks from the van and the free-men, ---He alone sinks to the rear and the slaves! II. We shall march prospering,---not thro' his presence; Songs may inspirit us,---not from his lyre; Deeds will be done,---while he boasts his quiescence, Still bidding crouch whom the rest bade aspire: Blot out his name, then, record one lost soul more, One task more declined, one more foot-path untrod, One more devils'-triumph and sorrow for angels, One wrong more to man, one more insult to God! Life's night begins: let him never come back to us! There would be doubt, hesitation and pain, Forced praise on our part---the glimmer of twilight, Never glad confident morning again! Best fight on well, for we taught him---strike gallantly, Menace our heart ere we
Look, the eucalyptus, the Atlas pine, the yellowing ash, all the trees are gone, and I was older than all of them. I am older than the moon, than the stars that fill my plate, than the unseen planets that huddle together here at the end of a year no one wanted. A year more than a year, in which the sparrows learned to fly backwards into eternity. Their brothers and sisters saw this and refuse to build nests. Before the week is over they will all have gone, and the chorus of love that filled my yard and spilled into my kitchen each evening will be gone. I will have to learn to sing in the voices of pure joy and pure pain. I will have to forget my name, my childhood, the years under the cold dominion of the clock so that this voice, torn and cracked, can reach the low hills that shielded the orange trees once. I will stand on the back porch as the cold drifts in, and sing, not for joy, not for love, not even to be heard. I will sing so that the darkness can take hold and whatever is left, the fallen fruit, the last leaf, the puzzled squirrel, the child far from home, lost, will believe this could be any night. That boy, walking alone, thinking of nothing or reciting his favorite names to the moon and stars, let him find the home he left this morning, let him hear
Go, Erik Go. You are walking in the spotlight of stars tonight, at County College of Morris Twenty-eighth Commencement Celebration rite. How exhilarating your mother feels? Words fail to justify this night. But, my heart overflows with pride, joy and radiant bliss, that I want to jump up and do the "Twist." Son, instead, I give you a bear hug and cheek kiss, which is better than a slipped disk. Sniff, Sniff, mother weeps. I just remembered your baby years. It was so hard loving you then. I worked dog tired; had little rest, while I tried to do my very best. Everyday as I cradled you against my chest and watched you suckle lying at rest, bonded superfluous strength to survive the Single Parent Test and the stamina to do the rest. Woo, Woo, Woo, mother shouts as Erik ascends the stage steps for his degree. He smiles with glee and gives two "Thumbs" up to me. When he returns seated, I congratulate him saying, "My son, let 'God's Beacon' signal your pathway, when an unexpected life wobble leave your mind in a boggle. Stay plugged into life using positive discipline, diplomacy and tact. These are strategies that work, when golden opportunity explodes like sparkling fireworks. Go, Go, Go, mother yells from her gut, as the ceremony ends; the happy class leave walking, in a last unity strut. Erik's cap is pitched high into the sky, outside. He is next to hop aboard the "Opportunity Roller Coaster Ride."
The one with brown eyes and brown hair her Hometown is Paris in France She has such a sweet singing voice and to music she loves to dance She is in her twenty fourth year and happy in her single life For some very lucky young man she will make a beautiful wife. Her accent is easy to love like the lilt to a beautiful song Of her voice one never could tire I'd listen to her all day long To this Town she's like a breath of fresh air not many French people live here Except for the rare tourist who stop for a break from travel I meet one perhaps once a year. She has such an old World charm and she has such a beautiful face And she doesn't find it hard for to smile a woman of charm and grace 'Twould be nice if here she did settle but in our Town I know she won't stay The young woman from Paris in France from home she is so far away. She says she will go home next year in beautiful May of the Spring In the green parks of Paris in France she will hear the birds whistle and sing And on the verandah of her old home with family and friends out of the glare of the sunshine She will sing along in the sing song as she enjoys a glass of good French made wine.
I see him as I walk in. I see him looking at me. He sees me looking at him, too. He looks away instantly, and so do I. Out the corner of my eye, I see him glancing at me. He sees me looking again, and turns away, as do I. I think we’re both embarrassed. I noticed he was pretty cute, though. I stand with my back to him, composing myself. I turn round, and he’s stood ahead of me. Looking at me, like I’m looking at him. I forget myself, and just lose myself in his big, blue eyes. Big, blue eyes that hold me captivated, and guide me through the gateway to his soul. They reflect every emotion I knew existed. Hurt, hatred, love and compassion. Happiness, loneliness, pain and depression. As a glimmer of an attraction shines, I find myself smiling. He smiles with me. Wow, that’s a killer smile. I stand in front of him, openly staring, and feeding the fire rumbling in me with his gorgeous features. My heart was racing, but it couldn’t keep up with my thoughts. Ideas and questions rushed haphazardly through my head How do I tell him I like him? Will he believe me? I took one deep breath, and spoke. “Dan, pull yourself together, you look amazing, and there is nothing to be shy and self-conscious about. Get out there and knock ‘em dead! ”
This is so beautiful-whether your MOM is with you or not. Your Mother is always with you. She's the whisper of the leaves as you walk down the street, she's the smell of certain foods you remember, flowers you pick and perfume that she wore, she's the cool hand on your brow when you're not feeling well, she's your breath in the air on a Cold winter's day. She is the sound of the rain that lulls you to sleep, the colors of a rainbow, she is Christmas morning. Your Mother lives inside your laughter. And she's crystallized in every tear drop. A mother shows every emotion........... Happiness, sadness, fear, jealousy, love, hate, anger, helplessness, excitement, joy, sorrow..... and all the while, hoping and praying you will only know the Good feelings in life. She's the place you came from, your first home, and she's the map you follow with every step you take. She's your first love, your first friend, even your first enemy, but nothing on earth can separate you. Not time, not space.......not even death! made by Tempestt Cole
A rock, for ages, stern and high, Stood frowning 'gainst the earth and sky, And never bowed his haughty crest When angry storms around him prest. Morn, springing from the arms of night, Had often bathed his brow with light. And kissed the shadows from his face With tender love and gentle grace. Day, pausing at the gates of rest, Smiled on him from the distant West, And from her throne the dark-browed Night Threw round his path her softest light. And yet he stood unmoved and proud, Nor love, nor wrath, his spirit bowed; He bared his brow to every blast And scorned the tempest as it passed. One day a tiny, humble seed -- The keenest eye would hardly heed -- Fell trembling at that stern rock's base, And found a lowly hiding-place. A ray of light, and drop of dew, Came with a message, kind and true; They told her of the world so bright, Its love, its joy, and rosy light, And lured her from her hiding-place, To gaze upon earth's glorious face. So, peeping timid from the ground, She clasped the ancient rock around, And climbing up with childish grace, She held him with a close embrace; Her clinging was a thing of dread; Where'er she touched a fissure spread, And he who'd breasted many a storm Stood frowning there, a mangled form; A Truth, dropped in the silent earth, May seem a thing of little worth, Till, spreading round some mighty wrong, It saps
Even this great mist that drowned the forest, Relented to Him: grey billows gave, and flanked servilely as He moved forwards - towards me - as if passing through befogged pillars Of a once mighty temple. Countenance concealed in mystery, His mind Focussed on mine: thus did I sense that bourdon Of pure, basal tone resonating deep in my cranium. And on those sine waves rode His message. Glint of toneless eye caught my quaking dermis, Telling Him of my response as I sensed further intentions - For they stirred new and novel chills in me. Did I not need to hear them too? He wanted spoken confirmation unto me: I must be sundered by His voice of gravitas - Be audience to His prelude! Damn His desire to reaffirm such loathed aim - I knew I was His victim! His comportment reeked with subterfuge, but I already new His want! And still I let Him come - what else was there? Succumbing to His steady drift towards me - along perfect line - I let Him impose His levy. Soon I would be engulfed; swallowed; deformed To a new self: what of me then? What to do, when evil becomes you?
I am Trayvon Martin Yo soy Trayvon Martin Je suis Trayvon Martin Mwen se Trauvon Martin For a long time and even now, Justice Is never irrelevant to us. Very often, we wonder how Come we are always The victims, the culprits, The ones who get dumped in the pits In the shallow graves. We get killed by being in the wrong place At the wrong time. We get mace on our face For no reasons. A horrendous crime Is being perpetrated this season By the namby pamby warden, Who should be in jail, in prison. This is high treason For not respecting valor, Uniforms, candor And peers. No one cheers, Once ignorance And malfeasance Show up at the door Of the poor Victims. Everyone screams, Because the injustice Is blatantly obvious. This is somewhat peculiar. The skin color Of the Scholar Is the matter. The brother and the sister Finally got a job, But when the stock broker Can no longer rob The poor clients; The brother and the sister, Who were last hired, Are the first saints To be fired. Our offspring is profiled From the crib; Our progenitor is defiled Anon, at the bottom of the crypt. Justice Is never irrelevant to us. Copyright© March,2012, Hebert Logerie, All Rights Reserved Hébert Logerie is the author of several poetry books: ‘Etincelles de l'Amour', ‘Monts et Vallées de l'Amour', ‘Sparkles of Love' and ‘Mounts and Valleys of Love' https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359 http: //www.poemhunter.com/hebert-logerie
There's a happy time coming, When the boys come home. There's a glorious day coming, When the boys come home. We will end the dreadful story Of this treason dark and gory In a sunburst of glory, When the boys come home. The day will seem brighter When the boys come home, For our hearts will be lighter When the boys come home. Wives and sweethearts will press them In their arms and caress them, And pray God to bless them, When the boys come home. The thinned ranks will be proudest When the boys come home, And their cheer will ring the loudest When the boys come home. The full ranks will be shattered, And the bright arms will be battered, And the battle-standards tattered, When the boys come home. Their bayonets may be rusty, When the boys come home, And their uniforms dusty, When the boys come home. But all shall see the traces Of battle's royal graces, In the brown and bearded faces, When the boys come home. Our love shall go to meet them, When the boys come home, To bless them and to greet them, When the boys come home; And the fame of their endeavor Time and change shall not dissever From the nation's heart forever, When the boys come home.
I DO not fear to own me kin To the glad clods in which spring flowers begin; Or to my brothers, the great trees, That speak with pleasant voices in the breeze, Loud talkers with the winds that pass; Or to my sister, the deep grass. Of such I am, of such my body is, That thrills to reach its lips to kiss. That gives and takes with wind and sun and rain And feels keen pleasure to the point of pain. Of such are these, The brotherhood of stalwart trees, The humble family of flowers, That make a light of shadowy bowers Or star the edges of the bent: They give and take sweet colour and sweet scent; They joy to shed themselves abroad; And tree and flower and grass and sod Thrill and leap and live and sing With silent voices in the Spring. Hence I not fear to yield my breath, Since all is still unchanged by death; Since in some pleasant valley I may be, Clod beside clod, or tree by tree, Long ages hence, with her I love this hour; And feel a lively joy to share With her the sun and rain and air, To taste her quiet neighbourhood As the dumb things of field and wood, The clod, the tree, and starry flower, Alone of all things have the power.
What do you mean by river? Is it only mere water? Is it flood water or dry river? River, I know, my life my notion The lifelines of my civilization. River goes on long journey towards the sea I go on long journey through this body towards my Master, Almighty. My life is the purest life, see, watch, observe My life is unique, highly developed Fresh air fresh mind fresh water fresh thought I am in need to flow smoothly to my Master, Almighty. Rainy and summer all experienced by the river O my dear, I experienced my sadness and happiness And care not and I flow with the time To receive His grace here. Eighty four lakhs of Yonis or births I have crossed And reached so far at this human life's entrance gate Of my Master and I have listened what He told me At the outer of my life come on come on I am here I am here Telling me river at the ocean's outer and in the deep Deep ocean you may say milk-ocean You are my Master, my dear Come on come on You are telling me and I am Flowing with pleasure with the time-river.
To the melody of "Sheng Sheng Man" I pine and peak And questless seek Groping and moping to linger and languish Anon to wander and wonder, glare, stare and start Flesh chill'd Ghost thrilled With grim dart And keen canker of rankling anguish. Sudden a gleam Of fair weather felt But fled as fast -- and the ice-cold season stays. How hard to have these days In rest or respite, peace or truce. Sip upon sip of tasteless wine Is of slight use To counter or quell The fierce lash of the evening blast. The wild geese -- see -- Fly overhead Ah, there's the grief That's chief -- grief beyond bearing, Wild fowl far faring In days of old you sped Bearing my true love's tender thoughts to me. Lo, how my lawn is rife with golden blooms Of bunched chrysanthemums -- Weary their heads they bow. Who cares to pluck them now? While I the casement keep Lone, waiting, waiting for night And, as the shades fall Upon broad leaves, sparse rain-drops drip. Ah, such a plight Of grief -- grief unbearable, unthinkable.
'Twas a fearful night -- the tempest raved With loud and wrathful pride, The storm-king harnessed his lightning steeds, And rode on the raging tide. The sea-king lay on his bed of death, Pale mourners around him bent; They knew the wild and fitful life Of their chief was almost spent. His ear was growing dull in death When the angry storm he heard, The sluggish blood in the old man's veins With sudden vigor stirred. "I hear them call," cried the dying man, His eyes grew full of light; "Now bring me here my warrior robes, My sword and armor bright. "In the tempest's lull I heard a voice, I knew 'twas Odin's call. The Valkyrs are gathering round my bed To lead me unto his hall. "Bear me unto my noblest ship, Light up a funeral pyre; I'll walk to the palace of the braves Through a path of flame and fire." Oh! wild and bright was the stormy light That flashed from the old man's eye, As they bore him from the couch of death To his battle-ship to die, And lit with many a mournful torch The sea-king's dying bed, And like a banner fair and bright The flames around him spread. But they heard no cry of anguish Break through that fiery wall, With rigid brow and silent lips He was seeking Odin's hall. Through a path of fearful splendor, While strong men held their breath, The brave old man went boldly forth And calmly
Seven stars in the still water, And seven in the sky; Seven sins on the King's daughter, Deep in her soul to lie. Red roses are at her feet, (Roses are red in her red-gold hair) And O where her bosom and girdle meet Red roses are hidden there. Fair is the knight who lieth slain Amid the rush and reed, See the lean fishes that are fain Upon dead men to feed. Sweet is the page that lieth there, (Cloth of gold is goodly prey,) See the black ravens in the air, Black, O black as the night are they. What do they there so stark and dead? (There is blood upon her hand) Why are the lilies flecked with red? (There is blood on the river sand.) There are two that ride from the south and east, And two from the north and west, For the black raven a goodly feast, For the King's daughter rest. There is one man who loves her true, (Red, O red, is the stain of gore!) He hath duggen a grave by the darksome yew, (One grave will do for four.) No moon in the still heaven, In the black water none, The sins on her soul are seven, The sin upon his is one.
Because the pleasure-bird whistles after the hot wires, Shall the blind horse sing sweeter? Convenient bird and beast lie lodged to suffer The supper and knives of a mood. In the sniffed and poured snow on the tip of the tongue of the year That clouts the spittle like bubbles with broken rooms, An enamoured man alone by the twigs of his eyes, two fires, Camped in the drug-white shower of nerves and food, Savours the lick of the times through a deadly wood of hair In a wind that plucked a goose, Nor ever, as the wild tongue breaks its tombs, Rounds to look at the red, wagged root. Because there stands, one story out of the bum city, That frozen wife whose juices drift like a fixed sea Secretly in statuary, Shall I, struck on the hot and rocking street, Not spin to stare at an old year Toppling and burning in the muddle of towers and galleries Like the mauled pictures of boys? The salt person and blasted place I furnish with the meat of a fable. If the dead starve, their stomachs turn to tumble An upright man in the antipodes Or spray-based and rock-chested sea: Over the past table I repeat this present grace.
America is America the land of the free, born in the hope of a new world created, amongst men who believed the vision of liberty and a freedom to live in this glorious world as inspired by valued people, created by its natural landscaping, bounded by principles that to live in harmony with nature has come to witness the wisdom of our dear forefather the dignity of each man, living in a time of what has been bless by the Almighty Father perfected by His creation as the spring birth the summer breeze, and the night comes after the day, the morning has bless the loving people of America, where respect and understanding welcome all nation to shelter, the cheddar of Lebanon Oh! America, where every hope comes in the most expected ways, come swift it away for the day has given to you to stay, Nay! America leaves us with pain, our hearts echo it joy to renew the eternity bell, where you always there to lend your hand, Alas! America, your the answer of our call, the unity that we almost fall, the clings of every nation souls to live freely as everybody wants to be free America is America, the journey that always there, the step that make us well and the nation that takes you there Viva America!
I sit on the tracks, a hundred feet from earth, fifty from the water. Gerald is inching toward me as grim, slow, and determined as a season, because he has no trade and wants none. It's been nine months since I last listened to his fate, but I know what he will say: he's the fire hydrant of the underdog. When he reaches my point above the creek, he sits down without salutation, and spits profoundly out past the edge, and peeks for meaning in the ripple it brings. He scowls. He speaks: when you walk down any street you see nothing but coagulations of shit and vomit, and I'm sick of it. I suggest suicide; he prefers murder, and spits again for the sake of all the great devout losers. A conductor's horn concerto breaks the air, and we, two doomed pennies on the track, shove off and somersault like anesthetized fleas, ruffling the ideal locomotive poised on the water with our light, dry bodies. Gerald shouts terrifically as he sails downstream like a young man with a destination. I swim toward shore as fast as my boots will allow; as always, neglecting to drown.
'Twas the night before christmas in a war over seas a soldier said a prayer by his bed on his knees He said 'I don't wanna be here but i can not leave Lord please let my family have a great christmas eve' This soldier I speak of Will Have Christmas alone all that he has is a package from home Inside of the package was a great surprise it was a picture of his family he wiped the tears from his eyes His wife left a note that said we are all alone the kids miss their daddy please hurry back home his six year old daughter gave a teddybear to her dad along with a note that said this will help when you're sad The soldier picked up his gun and went back out to work and then he noticed a kid that looked like he was hurt the soldier said 'What's the matter kid, what is your bother? ' the kid responded by saying 'They just shot my father.' The soldier said 'I've got something for you, to make you less sad' Then he pulled out a teadybear and said let this remind you of your dad The soldier went on his way to continue to fight and said 'Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night'
Brother Jackson died a few moons ago. It is a loss. It is a finale; it is the final curtain. Everyday is a loss, tomorrow is uncertain. Take several deep breaths, do as many toasts That your heart and soul desire. Stare at the moon, walk in the sun, play in the rain, and admire The trees, the plants, the leaves and the flowers. Smile with, wave at, and chat with your neighbors. Everyday is a loss; sweet moments move quicker than the thieves Of Penzance. Appreciate and enjoy every second of the day. The Cardiologist is in jail; it is a loss For our community. There no winners, Only losers. Life is short and precious. Enjoy the plains, the mounts, the valleys and the rivers; Never be vindictive and malicious. It is always a loss, when you examine it deeply. There are no winners, only losers. Smile with, wave at and forgive your neighbors. It is always a loss! Pray for Brother Jackson, and have pity On the adversaries. Enjoy and appreciate every second of the day. Smoking Joe Frazier, a great boxer, recently passed away. Steve Jobs, a genius, died; so did Andy Rooney. It is always a loss, when you examine it deeply. Don’t stop praying for our friends, foes and brothers everyday. Smile, laugh and enjoy every second of the day. Copyright© November 7,2011, Hébert Logerie, All Rights Reserved Hebert Logerie is the author of several poetry books. https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359 http: //www.poemhunter.com/hebert-logerie
Sometimes the poem doesn't want to come; it hides from the poet like a playful cat who has run under the house & lurks among slugs, roots, spiders' eyes, ledge so long out of the sun that it is dank with the breath of the Troll King. Sometimes the poem darts away like a coy lover who is afraid of being possessed, of feeling too much, of losing his essential loneliness-which he calls freedom. Sometimes the poem can't requite the poet's passion. The poem is a dance between poet & poem, but sometimes the poem just won't dance and lurks on the sidelines tapping its feet- iambs, trochees- out of step with the music of your mariachi band. If the poem won't come, I say: sneak up on it. Pretend you don't care. Sit in your chair reading Shakespeare, Neruda, immortal Emily and let yourself flow into their music. Go to the kitchen and start peeling onions for homemade sugo. Before you know it, the poem will be crying as your ripe tomatoes bubble away with inspiration. When the whole house is filled with the tender tomato aroma, start kneading the pasta. As you rock over the damp sensuous dough, making it bend to your will, as you make love to this manna of flour and water, the poem will get hungry and come just like a cat coming home when you least expect her.
On thing I admire, nay two things always strike me as admirable: The way evil characters always laugh with total happy abandon About their plots to overthrow the world, and the way they always love their cats, mostly white with blue eyes – given the importance Of joyous laughter in our lives, people having pets living longer, healthy lives - this phenomenon is deserving of attention I am thinking of a scheme to overthrow the world so I can throw back my head to laugh long and hard and happily, Hollywood has this down pat By making villains keep taped laughter in a box – preferably on a wheel-chair’s side – as villains are mostly sitting there, having lost a limb or two They turn it on for special effect upon pronouncing their next evil event – luckily my cell-phone announces incoming messages with a bout of hysterical laughter I always irritate my wife by laughing along; the cat I already have, an evil creature, trying to scratch me whenever I pass - I’m sure to enjoy all the advantages of evil Laughter; keeping an arch-villain cat as the basis of the evil plot that is my life!
Now here’s a short poem that I oft thought of showing. A bit of a lark, or a thing of the dark? Above all an admission of truth. Now I’ve joined you all here for less than a year. On this journey so dear, of poems diverse and astute. Of feelings sublime that sometimes do rhyme. Of anger and angst, or a grievance to hoot. Well I have to admit that I sometimes do dream, of the style and the wit, to make you all swoon, and to gasp, with each brilliant line that I’ve writ. I think to myself in a self centred way, what have I to say that can give, you all an experience, you’ll never forget. A verse so sublime that never with time will it loose its importance. Not even in death! Well if I find it I’m sure you’ll be the first to endure the full force of its eloquent depth. But until then and for now the best I can do is this sorry attempt, at a poem with serious intent. And if it cannot aspire to set you on fire, I hope that at least you’re content. And perhaps, well maybe, you have to admit, there’s a poem, or two, you wish you had writ.
I fear the fear i cannot stop, I fear it more and more, And when i grind my teeth with pain, The words come out demure. I close my eyes with acid, And dream while not asleep, To confuse any enemys, Anything i write i eat. I fear the loss of loving, But loving leads to pain, So when im loving i admit, I start to fear again. I cry tears of happiness, To pretend it isnt real, I divulge no information, On what is truely real. I say sorry constantly, It means nothing anymore, Im sorry i cant be sincere, Are you wanting more? Would you like my fantasies, To warp with truth and light, Or can i keep them to myself, So i can keep them warped inside? I fear my sense of longing, I turn me inside out, My insides are much prettier, Than the outsides ever felt. So spit on me with poison, Prove my worth is nil, I dont fear your ignorance, Its your clarity that kills. Seek the maze of happiness, And dont you chase you tail, Dead ends lace every divide, But no one can win or fail. So fear the fear that i fear, And see that all this mess, Will not be sanitised with truth, When you beg me to confess.
Across the Eastern sky has glowed The flicker of a blood-red dawn, Once more the clarion cock has crowed, Once more the sword of Christ is drawn. A million burning rooftrees light The world-wide path of Israel's flight. Where is the Hebrew's fatherland? The folk of Christ is sore bestead; The Son of Man is bruised and banned, Nor finds whereon to lay his head. His cup is gall, his meat is tears, His passion lasts a thousand years. Each crime that wakes in man the beast, Is visited upon his kind. The lust of mobs, the greed of priest, The tyranny of kings, combined To root his seed from earth again, His record is one cry of pain. When the long roll of Christian guilt Against his sires and kin is known, The flood of tears, the life-blood spilt, The agony of ages shown, What oceans can the stain remove, From Christian law and Christian love? Nay, close the book; not now, not here, The hideous tale of sin narrate, Reëchoing in the martyr's ear, Even he might nurse revengeful hate, Even he might turn in wrath sublime, With blood for blood and crime for crime. Coward? Not he, who faces death, Who singly against worlds has fought, For what? A name he may not breathe, For liberty of prayer and thought. The angry sword he will not whet, His nobler task is -- to forget.
The game players of America, Are first bred in our neighborhoods. They are conditioned to be gangsters, Crooks and hoodlums. And put on trial for their criminal denials. The game players of America, Are taught to deceive, lie and cheat. Hussel stolen goods on urban streets. Go to some church to pray and sing. And on Wednesdays study Bible verse... To enable them to be forgiven, For the sins upon themselves they bring. The game players of America, Are part Hollywood mixed with truth. Part naïve, innocent and uncouth. And mentally driven to anything falsified that shines. Conditioned with materialistic mindsets. And quick to claim what is theirs... With a factor that begins, With a carelessness most times. The game players of America, Can be said to be thoughtless, rude and self indulgent. But if they are not into the game to win... Losing for them, Becomes a taxpayers involvement. And high are taxes found, In cities or towns... Where they are not known to go down! Like the blood that's shed and spread on the ground. However... Rose colored glasses, Are on the eyes of everyone. Distributed free at birth! And religiously worn. Whether folks are conducting daily business... Or hiding behind them hypocritically in some church!
Our Fallen Hero Stands tall in our minds As he lay lifeless To save your child and mine A good man he was We'll hear everyone say That doesn't even touch The man he was that day Many will say I'd do the same I'd lay down my life If tragedy became Yet, all we do know Stood a great man In our time of trouble He took a stand His rewards are great So selfishly we can say Our Fallen hero Saved our children that day 11/16/05 In my son and daughters high school this past year a 14 yr. old boy shot 3 of our principals killing 1. He was a great man and still is in all our minds. My son just graduated this May 2006~ and they both were there to speak at his graduation. They came back to work in about 6 weeks after being shot. They both were critically injured and doctors didn't know if they would live. Our head principal was shot 3 times and still took the gunman down and subdued him and then got on the intercom and put the school in lock down. That's what kind of men they all 3 are. I'm proud that my kids have roll models like them in their lives.
Go work in my vineyard, said the Lord, And gather the bruised grain; But the reapers had left the stubble bare, And I trod the soil in pain. The fields of my Lord are wide and broad, He has pastures fair and green, And vineyards that drink the golden light Which flows from the sun's bright sheen. I heard the joy of the reapers' song, As they gathered golden grain; Then wearily turned unto my task, With a lonely sense of pain. Sadly I turned from the sun's fierce glare, And sought the quiet shade, And over my dim and weary eyes Sleep's peaceful fingers strayed. I dreamed I joined with a restless throng, Eager for pleasure and gain; But ever and anon a stumbler fell, And uttered a cry of pain. But the eager crowd still hurried on, Too busy to pause or heed, When a voice rang sadly through my soul, You must staunch these wounds that bleed. My hands were weak, but I reached them out To feebler ones than mine, And over the shadows of my life Stole the light of a peace divine. Oh! then my task was a sacred thing, How precious it grew in my eyes! 'Twas mine to gather the bruised grain For the "Lord of Paradise." And when the reapers shall lay their grain On the floors of golden light, I feel that mine with its broken sheaves Shall be precious in His sight. Though thorns may often pierce my feet,
What it is in the department, The academia and the academies And the people academic, Followed by a dull and routinized affair, Monotonous, dreary and dry? Why not to drift far, Deviate and digress differently By being attuned to a world Full of beauty, mystery and horror? And it is too a reality that The snakes can often be seen Creeping into my house, Staying a brief while Or a few days more And then moving out, Poisonous and non-poisonous. Metali, a deep brown-coloured non-poisonous snake Which lives mainly in mud and waters, Pan-dhora, a brown and striped water snake May bite, but is non-poisonous And what to say more about the poisonous ones, They often visit my house. Now I dream, is my love Icchadhari Nagin, Willed, Human-face Taking She-cobra, A Naga-kanya, a cobra-daughter, Should I mark the fickleness of the eye lenses and balls If she is, Or should I go playing the wooden been instrument In the forest deep And the cobras as my audience Surging to hear my music, The been music, The music of The east, of Asia, the Orient Leaving the whisperings and conspiracies Of the academia? Is it the blessing of the Snake-god Or of Ma Manasa To see me as a snake charmer?
Then a woman said, "Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow." And he answered: Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that hold your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, "Joy is greater than sorrow," and others say, "Nay, sorrow is the greater." But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed. Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy. Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced. When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall.
How advanced they are, these children of the future, Like small adults, within their tiny frames, They grow up in a fast 'speed driven' culture, Where 'learning pressures' change their kind of games, Where is their childhood, in all this hurly burly, Where is their pure untainted view of things, Why do they have to grow so old, so early, And lose the joy that only childhood brings. Our childhood was filled with thoughts of joy and gladness, We lived our lives, oblivious to the world And all the hardships, wars, the grief and sadness, We stood, waiting for our lives to be unfurled. We had time to grow, and gain an understanding, Of each new phase, each change along the way, As we grew slowly, our senses all expanding, So with clarity, we slowly changed our play. We had a framework on which to build and flourish, Slow and steady, this was no rushed affair, Taking each step, then step by step to nourish, Our childhood, so finally adulthood we would share. What will become, of these 'New Century' learners, I doubt if they, a dreamy childhood see, Will they then tell to all those bright discerners Of their own, how they remembered their childhood to be.
The skies are brass and the plains are bare, Death and ruin are everywhere -- And all that is left of the last year's flood Is a sickly stream on the grey-black mud; The salt-springs bubble and the quagmires quiver, And -- this is the dirge of the Darling River: `I rise in the drought from the Queensland rain, `I fill my branches again and again; `I hold my billabongs back in vain, `For my life and my peoples the South Seas drain; `And the land grows old and the people never `Will see the worth of the Darling River. `I drown dry gullies and lave bare hills, `I turn drought-ruts into rippling rills -- `I form fair island and glades all green `Till every bend is a sylvan scene. `I have watered the barren land ten leagues wide! `But in vain I have tried, ah! in vain I have tried `To show the sign of the Great All Giver, `The Word to a people: O! lock your river. `I want no blistering barge aground, `But racing steamers the seasons round; `I want fair homes on my lonely ways, `A people's love and a people's praise -- `And rosy children to dive and swim -- `And fair girls' feet in my rippling brim; `And cool, green forests and gardens ever' -- Oh, this is the hymn of the Darling River. The sky is brass and the scrub-lands glare, Death and ruin are everywhere; Thrown high to bleach, or deep in
When my mother died I was very young, And my father sold me while yet my tongue Could scarcely cry 'Weep! weep! weep! weep!' So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep. There's little Tom Dacre, who cried when his head, That curled like a lamb's back, was shaved; so I said, 'Hush, Tom! never mind it, for, when your head's bare, You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.' And so he was quiet, and that very night, As Tom was a-sleeping, he had such a sight! -- That thousands of sweepers, Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack, Were all of them locked up in coffins of black. And by came an angel, who had a bright key, And he opened the coffins, and let them all free; Then down a green plain, leaping, laughing, they run, And wash in a river, and shine in the sun. Then naked and white, all their bags left behind, They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind; And the Angel told Tom, if he'd be a good boy, He'd have God for his father, and never want joy. And so Tom awoke, and we rose in the dark, And got with our bags and our brushes to work. Though the morning was cold, Tom was happy and warm: So, if all do their duty, they need not fear harm.
Sometimes…..I travel back to my past, Down the memory lanes. I find myself alone, lost in vain, I see myself struggling, to live in this world, With pain in my heart, that I could never tell in words. I looked for a shoulder, which could give me support, But no one heard me and passed on to their roads, Than you walked in, with a wonderful smile, This gave me strength and love for life, The touch of your hand and your talking eyes, Made me sure, it is you for whom my heart cries. Sometimes…I look in to my present, With my eyes wide open, ‘cause I never thought it would happen, My worries have gone & I have lost my pain, All I’ve got is luv and your smile like a Summer Rain, The power of love and the strength of your words, Has made me eager to live in this world, Smile on your lips and happiness in your eyes, This is all where my world lies. Sometimes….I look in to the future With dreams in my eyes, Kissing your lips at every sunrise I see you with me wrapped in my arms, Giving you love and all the charms, ‘cause you are the one who has changed my life, So I always dream you as my loving wife, Now I always wish to forget my past, & luv you forever until my breath last, I pray to God may my dreams come true, & I could
My mother was fortune, my father generosity and bounty; I am joy, son of joy, son of joy, son of joy. Behold, the Marquis of Glee has attainted felicity; this city and plain are filled with soldiers and drums and flags. If I encounter a wolf, he becomes moonfaced Joseph; if I go down into a well, it converts into a Garden of Eram. He whose heart is as iron and stone out of miserliness is now changed before me into a Hatem of the age in generosity and bounty. Dust becomes gold and pure silver in my hand; how then should the temptation of gold and silver waylay me? I have an idol such that, were his sweet scent scattered abroad, even an idol of stone would receive life through joy. Sorrow has died for joy in him of “may God bind your consolation”; how should not such a sword strike the neck of sorrow? By tyranny he seizes the soul of whom he desires; justices are all slaves of such injustice and tyranny. What is that mole on that face? Should it manifest itself, out of desire for it forthwith maternal aunt would be estranged from paternal [uncle]. I said, “If I am done and send my story, will you finish it and expound it?” He answered, “Yes.”
To not believe this thing is perfect is to believe it never was perfect! And to not believe it was perfect or is perfect is to believe it never could be, will be, would be, and to some degree, should be perfect! Believe in the perfection of life! Peace, love, joy, goodness, grace, tender-mercy etc. Life, Peace, Nature, You, Me, All is and are perfect forever! Health and or the universe is perfect! You know peace because you experience peace and are peace! What you discover you are, what you are you discover and or know already to be true! same is true with finding! and love! Peace is everything! Everything is peace! To believe that it isn't or never was perfect but that it will be perfect is to believe in something other than nature and or to believe deceptively or double-mindedly in the truth! It is to fall away from nature relatively and or absolutely! What is new is truly old! What is truly old is new! forever! Life is perfect, it is [was] and should be forever! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
My wish for today: that poet friends were viewing this, coffee in hand. January Vibrant cherries shine ice covered branches glimmer muted background same. February Sun swept red mountains guard crowded boat marina masts and poles worship. March Angry beach and sky huge wave crashing red lighthouse birds, helical fence. April Legions of sunflowers stare lifted on green leafed shoulders stormy horizon May Whimsical lighthouse atop bouldered barren hill flanked by two small sheds. June Last light of sunset paints quiet water mosaic small sailboat silent. July Chocolate mountain snow sprinkles and pine tree stands field of orange flowers. August Two wierd cacti hands pierce upside down flaming pit desert sunset awe. September Mountain, lake couple reflecting one together blue sky intrudes. October Inferno color autumn trees dazzle senses old fence and field yield. November Sheltering pine limbs frame small misty lake island morning's golden light. December Classic large red barn pine and young elm trees surround snow on roof and yard. My poet friends may you have all life's blessings and enjoy nature. Jim Norausky Katy, Texas January,2009
You are but a memory to my dear heart that dwindles as each day passes me by. My heart yearns for you, but you're not there, only your memory is, and that hurts even more. The tears are all too real and they follow the pain my heart feels when it misses you so. Memory upon memory floods the gates and soon I begin to drown in them. Each better than the last but all so sweet and real. The memory is real but its fading too fast its uncontrolable, and its evaporating like dew drops in the sun. I try to gather them up quickly, place them in a jar, but the time is quicker than I, and it speeds up the sun's steal. O I wish you could be here and not just your memory because you are by far better than the thought of the past. As each sunset brings forth a new day, I think about the memory, and the pain it brings is too immense but the tears are even bigger. You are but a memory that is quickly fading and only you can fix that my dear. Though my heart hurts so much from the pain only you can save me. Like each sunset brings forth a new time, this sunset will bring you to me. And love back into the mourning heart
Swami Vivekananda (On 12th January,2019) From coldness of mind to warmth Of Being, From idleness to ever inspired joy, From unconsciousness to consciousness, From Stupor of mind to superconscious self, From selfishness to selfless service, Let us be led. O supreme Mind, The Soul of our souls, O our Beloved the great, Swami Vivekananda, let us be awakened. Let us be centered to look beyond the fetters. The darkness is deep all around, The coolness is too much to bear with, Let your speech declare every heart, The dove of peace dawn to suffering humanity. O knowledge divine, the sky of consciousness let you be remembered as Glimpse Eternal. Walking the way is tiresome without knowing your message of love, Let you shine again in the morning of our Minds, In the Night shine as pole star and in the dawn The morning Star, Let our thoughts be raised to height to touch the Sky, Let our sleep be broken eternally, Our consciousness wide open. Let death be dead to have life of sacrifice, To live fully totally in the moment, Let all the palls be shredded from our minds to have a fresh look of The Sunshine, Let us be centered enough to walk on the way shown by you. ****************
I sat before my glass one day, And conjured up a vision bare, Unlike the aspects glad and gay, That erst were found reflected there - The vision of a woman, wild With more than womanly despair. Her hair stood back on either side A face bereft of loveliness. It had no envy now to hide What once no man on earth could guess. It formed the thorny aureole Of hard, unsanctified distress. Her lips were open - not a sound Came though the parted lines of red, Whate'er it was, the hideous wound In silence and secret bled. No sigh relieved her speechless woe, She had no voice to speak her dread. And in her lurid eyes there shone The dying flame of life's desire, Made mad because its hope was gone, And kindled at the leaping fire Of jealousy and fierce revenge, And strength that could not change nor tire. Shade of a shadow in the glass, O set the crystal surface free! Pass - as the fairer visions pass - Nor ever more return, to be The ghost of a distracted hour, That heard me whisper: - 'I am she!'
Listen identity my name was chosen by my parents before I came and after birth a note was bound at my toe what a shame My parents called my name and my heart beats but I was a human without an ID-card also when I fall asleep My identity is not my passport not my name not my land not what I write with my free hands My identity is not my color not my size not my language or my character even not my price My identity is not my dental filling my eye color or my hair not my fingerprint my job or my salary My identity is different from me because it is given to separate me Separates me from girls and boys even from twins and natural toys Separates me from religions politics and class is written in my document of birth and my testament at last This identity is given by state to control where I am even to find me paying no toll But my own identity is my life are my parents is my wife are my children and my friends my identity IS the promised land is the playground of my soul. (c) All Rights Reserved Floy Dy Ra,09/22/2012 aka Floyd Floydson
Your relationship with Nature speaks volumes about you Do you only see Nature as a means to financial gain or are you one of those who Love Nature for her beauty and love her wildlife and her trees And her rivers, lakes and mountains and her fields and flowers and bees? Your relationship with Nature tells of the sort of person that you are Do you see Nature's protectors as those who have gone too far In their dispute with the developer in their fight for every tree If this be so you support the environmental vandals or so 'twould seem to me? Your relationship with Nature about you more can say Than all of your friends and enemies can or so 'twould seem that way For your apathy to Nature tells of your inner strife And your attitude to Nature is your attitude to life. Your relationship with Nature says far more about you Than anyone else of you can say as their words may not be true For if you love Mother Nature and with her live in harmony Then you are working for the good of all of humanity.
Sitting in front of the fire, Auntie Flo's reciting a story, it's one about her first Christmas as a newly wed, the same one she broadcasts every year, but no one is listening. Uncle Fred, 'out to the world' snores rhythmically on the sofa. Mother exhausted, having cooked the lunch, without help, as usual, stifles a yawn. Dad, brow furrowed, is trying to piece together Eddy's lego set, whilst Eddy glowers, after all, it was 'his' present. Joe, playing with a set of 'disco lights' is sending flashes of colour across the room, straight into Grandpa's eyes, making him feel even more bilious after having consumed too many chocolates. Grandma's knitting. Grandma always knits on Christmas Day, and every other day, come to that, probably yet another scarf for what she believes is still the war effort. The cat, curled up on her lap, purrs contently, oblivious of the knitting needles, waving precariously in front of his sleepy eyes. Susan is gazing at the TV screen, . glued, for the umpteenth time to, 'The Sound of Music' movie, singing every song, word for word, at the top of her voice. 'Turkey was nice', said Auntie, 'I was given too much', moaned Grandpa, belching loudly. 'Your problem is, you never can refuse a second helping', said Grandma, 'so it's your own fault'. Mother grins and asks, 'Would anybody like another mince pie? '
Let us abandon then our gardens and go home And sit in the sitting-room Shall the larkspur blossom or the corn grow under this cloud? Sour to the fruitful seed Is the cold earth under this cloud, Fostering quack and weed, we have marched upon but cannot conquer; We have bent the blades of our hoes against the stalks of them. Let us go home, and sit in the sitting room. Not in our day Shall the cloud go over and the sun rise as before, Beneficent upon us Out of the glittering bay, And the warm winds be blown inward from the sea Moving the blades of corn With a peaceful sound. Forlorn, forlorn, Stands the blue hay-rack by the empty mow. And the petals drop to the ground, Leaving the tree unfruited. The sun that warmed our stooping backs and withered the weed uprooted— We shall not feel it again. We shall die in darkness, and be buried in the rain. What from the splendid dead We have inherited — Furrows sweet to the grain, and the weed subdued — See now the slug and the mildew plunder. Evil does overwhelm The larkspur and the corn; We have seen them go under. Let us sit here, sit still, Here in the sitting-room until we die; At the step of Death on the walk, rise and go; Leaving to our children's children the beautiful doorway, And this elm, And a blighted earth to till With a broken hoe.
I tell my secret? No indeed, not I: Perhaps some day, who knows? But not today; it froze, and blows, and snows, And you're too curious: fie! You want to hear it? well: Only, my secret's mine, and I won't tell. Or, after all, perhaps there's none: Suppose there is no secret after all, But only just my fun. Today's a nipping day, a biting day; In which one wants a shawl, A veil, a cloak, and other wraps: I cannot ope to every one who taps, And let the draughts come whistling thro' my hall; Come bounding and surrounding me, Come buffeting, astounding me, Nipping and clipping thro' my wraps and all. I wear my mask for warmth: who ever shows His nose to Russian snows To be pecked at by every wind that blows? You would not peck? I thank you for good will, Believe, but leave that truth untested still. Spring's and expansive time: yet I don't trust March with its peck of dust, Nor April with its rainbow-crowned brief showers, Nor even May, whose flowers One frost may wither thro' the sunless hours. Perhaps some languid summer day, When drowsy birds sing less and less, And golden fruit is ripening to excess, If there's not too much sun nor too much cloud, And the warm wind is neither still nor loud, Perhaps my secret I may say, Or you may guess.
^Death Of Innocence A little girl was playing in the garden 'round her home, Mischief sparkled in her dark eyes and her curly hair was blond. Innocent joy rang in the laughter of her happy, playful song: 'Dandelions are as pretty as the flowers that grow high. I have picked some for you, Mommy, and I want to show you why. They make tassels on our slippers; we can wear them, you and I.' Into that happy garden crept a serpent black and long, Shining sinister in the sunlight as he flicked a jeweled tongue. Captivatedly she listened to his strange inviting song: 'Stolen candies can be sweeter than the ones your parents buy. Taste how sweet they are, like honey, as I coil about your thigh. It will be our little secret as we eat them, you and I.' Secrets growing in a garden, in among the pretty blooms, Rob children of their laughter; so that it was very soon That a mother's heart was sighing a sad, foreboding tune: 'Oh, my daughter was so pretty, and I wish that I knew why Such a change has come about her that it makes my spirit cry. Her eyes have lost their glitter and she has not told me why.' Little girls will always grow up; that, in life, has been decreed, While secrets locked in childhood are concealed in history. Yet the scars they are concealing will be sung in misery: 'Why do candies taste so bitter? Why does
Give us, God, to Thee now turning, Fullness of joy, tears full and burning, Of will the full refining fire! Hear our prayer o'er his inurning: His will was one , the whole discerning, His whole soul would to it aspire. Yes; give us yet again, With power to lead, great men,- Power in counsel our folk to lead, Our folk in deed, Our folk in gladness and in need! Thou, O God, our want preventest; To raise the temple him Thou lentest, A spirit bright and pure and great. When Thou from time to call him meantest, Her tender soul to him Thou sentest Who went before to heaven's gate. When Thou didst set him free, An epoch ceased to be. Men then marveled, the while they said: 'Living and dead, O'er all our land he beauty spread.' Help us, God, to wiser waring, When to our land Thou light art bearing, That we Thy dayspring then may know. God, our future Thou'rt preparing, Oh, give us longing, honor's daring, That we the great may not forego! Thou sentest many out,- Cease not, our God, nor doubt! Let us follow Thy way, Thy call, Men, words, and all! Thy mercies shall our North enwall!
MY hovering thoughts would fly to heaven And quiet nestle in the sky, Fain would my ship in Virtue's shore Without remove at anchor lie. But mounting thoughts are haled down With heavy poise of mortal load, And blustring storms deny my ship In Virtue's haven secure abode. When inward eye to heavenly sights Doth draw my longing heart's desire, The world with jesses of delights Would to her perch my thoughts retire, Fon Fancy trains to Pleasure's lure, Though Reason stiffly do repine; Though Wisdom woo me to the saint, Yet Sense would win me to the shrine. Where Reason loathes, there Fancy loves, And overrules the captive will; Foes senses are to Virtue's lore, They draw the wit their wish to fill. Need craves consent of soul to sense, Yet divers bents breed civil fray ; Hard hap where halves must disagree, Or truce halves the whole betray ! O cruel fight ! where fighting friend With love doth kill a favoring foe, Where peace with sense is war with God, And self-delight the seed of woe ! Dame Pleasure's drugs are steeped in sin, Their sugared taste doth breed annoy ; O fickle sense ! beware her gin, Sell not thy soul to brittle joy !
Showering down an arc of meteors as it clacks across an off-kilter joint, The 'L' grumbles above Lake Street, Smearing early morning as the Kosher butchers trundle their loads up ramps into the hungering maw of road behemoths snoring in anticipation. The sky moves from bruised to blue. There's chocolate in the air at the corner of Halsted Inviting me to cross the backward flow of home's river rushing toward the glacial scar the city embraces. The spider web of streets converge at Grand Avenue As diesel-spewing buses, empty for a few more hours, huff And a bowler-hatted Buddha smiles and invites all comers in for patchouli and jasmine tea at a bistro down the block. Taxis chuff quietly in queues as do their Babel of drivers at Finkel's Deli at North Branch. No fares to collect until the third edition wheels out of the Tribune's presses just up the road Even though the bulldog is already scattered and tattered in the parking lot. Teeter tottering above the canal as a mast makes its way past at road level, An exclamation point slowly passing while the bridge stands at attention, The roadway rumbles as the steel slowly lowers to kiss the further shore. Such is the greeting Sol gets each Chicago morning as I saunter through the core And it climbs from floor to floor up the gaudy Hancock with its pronged crown. Sinatra said its all razzmatazz, but I know it really rumbles at dawn.
Work! Work! Work! And Reap! Work! Work! Work! And Sleep! Everyday most of we work Some of us love to work Some of us just want to rock Some of us want to lie on a beach or take a walk If we had our way, we could spend all day and talk But work we all must Or our lifestyles will go bust! We may then have to readjust To unacceptable standards of living in disgust Work! Work! Work! And Reap! Work! Work! Work! And Sleep! We all have different professions Some of us have silent confessions We fancy someone at work with an obsession Work is then fun with a passion until confusion Work! Work! Work! And Reap! Work! Work! Work! And Sleep! There are jobs that are monotonous The atmosphere is negatively outrageous Nothing in the air signifies hilarious Every single person is always very serious Sometimes played at work Is the kind of politics That makes one quite sick This is where the strong kick Kick hardest the backside of the weak But work we all must Or our lifestyles will go bust! As we find ourselves lost And then try hard to readjust So do we swallow? Or is fighting back shallow Will it leave in your pocket a dent that is hollow? Or produce a scene labeled horror Enough to leave you in tears of sorrow I don't have all the answers I know work is a living cancer People at work ought to
I hope you surf the waves in form the ocean, Big and small. I hope you watch the sunset, From a mountain straight and tall. I hope you can sing a song to all the angles, Loud and clear. I hope you will try new things, Never giving into fears. I hope you fall in love, With one who makes your world go around. I hope that if you fall out, Your feet will stay on the ground. I hope that you can understand, That true love waits for you. That you may have to wait a while, But when it comes it will be true. I hope you find a rainbow, And realize it was worth the rain. I hope through you journey, You will learn to balance smile with pain. I hope that you realize, Life isn't always on your side. I hope you know when hope is lost, In me you can confined. I hope that your glowing smile, Brings someone out of gloom. I hope you taste your life, With more than just a spoon. I hope that when you are lost, You are also one to find. And I hope that you hand, Never grows too big from mine. I hope watch the stars shoot by, Upon a grassy hill. I hope you know that I love you, Always have and always will.
Baby Love, walk with me Hold my hand Set me free With a single red rose, under a tree I love your big beautiful blue eyes And the way you wriggle those thighs In the middle of the night I endlessly fantasize Kisses, touches, moans - my dream comprises Baby Love, walk with me Please! Baby Love, talk to me Please! Every single elegant day Your centre stage is on display In my own loving Romeo play They say dreams do come true Will you appear suddenly out of the blue? I love your long beautiful smile Long and beautiful as the River Nile Your mesmerizing face tells many a tale With successful conquests I wish to hail When is it time for us to set sail Baby Love, walk with me Please! Rock me gently Please! I love your dazzling strong hands Kisses, laughter, adventures - the whole brand It is this love of you I softly demand Your eyes speak, they understand Walk with me Please! Baby Love, walk with me Kiss my lips As I close my eyes Unlock my heart with your key Set me free With a single red rose, under a tree Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi www.sylviachidi.co.uk
Love and Hate are four letter words that tells lies and that tells the truth Love and Hate are four letter words that express feelings for the old and the youth Love and Hate are four letter words that can be powerful Love and Hate are four letter words that can be doubtful Hate, hate is a four letter word that is cruel and mean Hate is a four letter word that was made to hurt someone's feelings Hate is four letter word that someone uses when they are angry Hate is a four letter word that can tear your family apart Hate is a four letter word that can even break your heart Love, love is four letter word that can sneak up on us sometimes Love is four letter word that is hard to say at times Love is a four letter word that can be true and pure Love is four letter word that can be fake and cruel Why do people say 'I love you' and don't even know what love is? Love is a four letter word that confuses the mind of adults and us young kids Love is a four letter word that can be blind Love is a four letter word that can play tricks on our minds Love and Hate are four letter words that tells lies and that tells the truth Love and Hate are four letter words that expresses feelings for the old and the youth
So you rode from the range where your brothers “select,” Through the ghostly grey bush in the dawn--- You rode slowly at first, lest her heart should suspect That you were glad to be gone; You had scarcely the courage to glance back at her By the homestead receding from view, And you breathed with relief as you rounded the spur, For the world was a wide world to you. Grey eyes that grow sadder than sunset or rain, Fond heart that is ever more true Firm faith that grows firmer for watching in vain--- She’ll wait by the sliprails for you. Ah! The world is a new and a wide one to you, But the world to your sweetheart is shut, For a change never comes to the lonely Bush girl From the stockyard, the bush, and the hut; And the only relief from the dullness she feels Is when ridges grow softened and dim, And away in the dusk to the sliprails she steals To dream of past meetings “with him.” Do you think, where, in place of bare fences, dry creeks, Clear streams and green hedges are seen--- Where the girls have the lily and rose in their cheeks, And the grass in midsummer is green--- Do you think now and then, now or then, in the whirl Of the city, while London is new, Of the hut in the Bush, and the freckled-faced girl Who is eating her heart out for you? Grey eyes that are
Frank, wil't live unhandsomely? trust not too far Thy self to waving seas: for what thy star, Calculated by sure event, must be, Look in the glassy-epithete, and see. Yet settle here your rest, and take your state, And in calm halcyon's nest ev'n build your fate; Prethee lye down securely, Frank, and keep With as much no noyse the inconstant deep As its inhabitants; nay, stedfast stand, As if discover'd were a New-found-land, Fit for plantation here. Dream, dream still, Lull'd in Dione's cradle; dream, untill Horrour awake your sense, and you now find Your self a bubbled pastime for the wind; And in loose Thetis blankets torn and tost. Frank, to undo thy self why art at cost? Nor be too confident, fix'd on the shore: For even that too borrows from the store Of her rich neighbour, since now wisest know (And this to Galileo's judgement ow), The palsie earth it self is every jot As frail, inconstant, waveing, as that blot We lay upon the deep, that sometimes lies Chang'd, you would think, with 's botoms properties; But this eternal, strange Ixion's wheel Of giddy earth ne'er whirling leaves to reel, Till all things are inverted, till they are Turn'd to that antick confus'd state they were. Who loves the golden mean, doth safely want A cobwebb'd cot and wrongs entail'd upon't; He richly needs a pallace for to breed Vipers and moths, that on their feeder feed; The toy that we (too true) a mistress
Long ago in a far away land Ruled a evil King with a strong hand He was mean and he was cruel Such a man should never rule. He had a daughter and a loving wife Two tall sons and a marvelous life His lack of appreciation for what he had Made the King’s family very sad. Gold coins piled high with plenty for his needs Could not satisfy the King’s vast greed He taxed his Subjects and he stole their land Issuing proclamations full of bold demands The beautiful Princess– no longer a girl Gave her hand in marriage to a handsome Earl Rode away with her husband on a prancing steed Leaving behind the King consumed with greed The oldest son loved adventures, games, and sport He soon grew weary of the boring court Where nothing occupied his royal father’s day But thinking of ways to make his Subjects pay. One fine day the Prince could stand no more Made plans to head for a distant shore Strapped on armor and a sharp-edged sword Sailed far away to fight a distant war. The King took no notice of his children’s flight He sat counting money all through the night The youngest son stopped as he went to bed Stood watching the King and sadly shook his head. The Prince worried about his father – his mother, too. He wished that he knew the best thing to do Nothing good could come of the King’s evil gain Seeing his
'But do not come to Daddy, crying, come Monday morning expecting to pay what I offer you right here and now, so come, do sign the papers if you know what's good for you and me.' 'I want to shop around to see what deal can be arranged to suit me best, I must look out for number one, surely you know, a customer does have the right? ' 'Well, once again, this deal is, to put it bluntly, for today, and not for any other time that follows. I'm in a mood to help you out, I like you, frankly and I know that you will send me all your friends, so trust me, Sir, I'm doing what is best for all of us, and also, I could tell.... the truth is, that you may be, so I notice a bit embarrassed with that old jalopy.' 'So what is the exact and final figure, counting the trade of Cedric here, and all the costs on road and for the Kaiser, insurance which you kindly offered, in other words, how much will be enough? ' 'Now that's more like it, the thinking man, you know, so many of my customers are, to put it mildly, so ignorant, don't get me wrong, I like them all, but it is always such a pleasure to deal with someone who can think like you. So, I suggest we get the papers done right now, I'll call your banker with the final figures then,
Frau Doktor, Mama Brundig, take out your contacts, remove your wig. I write for you. I entertain. But frogs come out of the sky like rain. Frogs arrive With an ugly fury. You are my judge. You are my jury. My guilts are what we catalogue. I’ll take a knife and chop up frog. Frog has not nerves. Frog is as old as a cockroach. Frog is my father’s genitals. Frog is a malformed doorknob. Frog is a soft bag of green. The moon will not have him. The sun wants to shut off like a light bulb. At the sight of him the stone washes itself in a tub. The crow thinks he’s an apple and drops a worm in. At the feel of frog the touch-me-nots explode like electric slugs. Slime will have him. Slime has made him a house. Mr. Poison is at my bed. He wants my sausage. He wants my bread. Mama Brundig, he wants my beer. He wants my Christ for a souvenir. Frog has boil disease and a bellyful of parasites. He says: Kiss me. Kiss me. And the ground soils itself. Why should a certain quite adorable princess be walking in her garden at such a time and toss her golden ball up like a bubble and drop it into the well? It was ordained. Just as the fates deal out the plague with a tarot card. Just as the Supreme Being drills holes in our skulls to let the Boston Symphony
the further I sweep it under the rug, the more this cancer builds walls inside-out. the more I fear myself, or starve myself of essential self-appreciation, or cringe, or drive blindly through the rising twisting roads, the more the grease collects. the puddle of grease and sweat too big to step around. the less I check and balance, and the more I deny or delay or forget, the deeper I sink, which equates incompetence. which means failure. failure ensures low moods and low moods ensure a cold blanket of loneliness. the taller the tree becomes in his journey to the sky, the more ambition I lose to conquer him and get there first. the urge fades and I decline dangerously. the more I dropp anchor or wear masks, or stubbornly decide not to pick up the phone or leave the house, the longer I'll stay where nobody is. the worse my beautiful original features seem. the more I'll feel neglected. more and more, I'll be killing myself. the more I follow advice and the arrows, the less independent I become. dependence ensures cling and cling leads to conflict. the more I pray, the better. I'll start feeling better if I dust off the past and ride on the crest of progress. the more dreams I have of you, the less I trust myself to stand up in confidence while I grow more needy. more tragically dismal. more accustomed to panic as I strive hopelessly to accept and comprehend and live
When the grass was closely mown, Walking on the lawn alone, In the turf a hole I found And hid a soldier underground. Spring and daisies came apace; Grasses hid my hiding-place; Grasses run like a green sea O'er the lawn up to my knee. Under grass alone he lies, Looking up with leaden eyes, Scarlet coat and pointed gun, To the stars and to the sun. When the grass is ripe like grain, When the scythe is stoned again, When the lawn is shaven clear, Then my hole shall reappear. I shall find him, never fear, I shall find my grenadier; But, for all that's gone and come, I shall find my soldier dumb. He has lived, a little thing, In the grassy woods of spring; Done, if he could tell me true, Just as I should like to do. He has seen the starry hours And the springing of the flowers; And the fairy things that pass In the forests of the grass. In the silence he has heard Talking bee and ladybird, And the butterfly has flown O'er him as he lay alone. Not a word will he disclose, Not a word of all he knows. I must lay him on the shelf, And make up the tale myself.
I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty -- ain't I glad to 'ave the chance! I'm loaded up wiv fightin', and I've 'ad my fill o' France; I'm feelin' so excited-like, I want to sing and dance, For I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty in the mawnin'. I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty: can you wonder as I'm gay? I've got a wound I wouldn't sell for 'alf a year o' pay; A harm that's mashed to jelly in the nicest sort o' way, For it takes me 'ome to Blighty in the mawnin'. 'Ow everlastin' keen I was on gettin' to the front! I'd ginger for a dozen, and I 'elped to bear the brunt; But Cheese and Crust! I'm crazy, now I've done me little stunt, To sniff the air of Blighty in the mawnin'. I've looked upon the wine that's white, and on the wine that's red; I've looked on cider flowin', till it fairly turned me 'ead; But oh, the finest scoff will be, when all is done and said, A pint o' Bass in Blighty in the mawnin'. I'm goin' back to Blighty, which I left to strafe the 'Un; I've fought in bloody battles, and I've 'ad a 'eap of fun; But now me flipper's busted, and I think me dooty's done, And I'll kiss me gel in Blighty in the mawnin'. Oh, there be furrin' lands to see, and some of 'em be fine; And there be furrin' gels to kiss, and scented furrin' wine; But there's
Thunder roars in the distance His sense of loneliness deepens He wishes he could feel emotion But Animal knows only instinct He senses the approaching storm And with it, the wrath of God The animal tries to escape from his fury But instead Is consumed in his own living hell The Animal cannot stop The rampage It tries to survive But cannot It wants to end its hunger But cannot catch its prey It tries for love But feels none The clouds start to swell With the sorrow of a thousand tears She cries She feels the mist in her heart The ground at her feet Her beauty is unmatched But it will not save her She turns around And sees the storm coming She knows she cannot escape her destiny For she is destiny's child The clouds roll over her They embrace her Consume her From the darkness of the storm The animal appears before her And like the sun in all its fiery fury He pulls her into the storm Hoping to end the hunger That consumes him Into the darkness they go Forevermore They sink lower and lower Forevermore To the darkest region of the abyss Forevermore Into the heart of the storm Forevermore Their fates collide Nevermore The animal consumes her in his wrath Sorrow meets with anger She becomes part of the creature Neither living, nor dying The animal knows by instinct The storm is almost over He knows and embraces it Lightning flares in
God, if this were enough, That I see things bare to the buff And up to the buttocks in mire; That I ask nor hope nor hire, Nut in the husk, Nor dawn beyond the dusk, Nor life beyond death: God, if this were faith! Having felt thy wind in my face Spit sorrow and disgrace, Having seen thine evil doom In Golgotha and Khartoum, And the brutes, the work of thine hands, Fill with injustice lands And stain with blood the sea: If still in my veins the glee Of the black night and the sun And the lost battle, run: If, an adept, The iniquitous lists I still accept With joy, and joy to endure and be withstood, And still to battle and perish for a dream of good: God, if that were enough! If to feel, in the ink of the slough, And the sink of the mire, Veins of glory and fire Run through and transpierce and transpire, And a secret purpose of glory in every part, And the answering glory of battle fill my heart; To thrill with the joy of girded men To go on for ever and fail and go on again, And be mauled to the earth and arise, And contend for the shade of a word and a thing not seen with the eyes: With the half of a broken hope for a pillow at night That somehow the right is the right And the smooth shall bloom from the rough:
THE warder looks down at the mid hour of night, On the tombs that lie scatter'd below: The moon fills the place with her silvery light, And the churchyard like day seems to glow. When see! first one grave, then another opes wide, And women and men stepping forth are descried, In cerements snow-white and trailing. In haste for the sport soon their ankles they twitch, And whirl round in dances so gay; The young and the old, and the poor, and the rich, But the cerements stand in their way; And as modesty cannot avail them aught here, They shake themselves all, and the shrouds soon appear Scatter'd over the tombs in confusion. Now waggles the leg, and now wriggles the thigh, As the troop with strange gestures advance, And a rattle and clatter anon rises high, As of one beating time to the dance. The sight to the warder seems wondrously queer, When the villainous Tempter speaks thus in his ear: "Seize one of the shrouds that lie yonder!" Quick as thought it was done! and for safety he fled Behind the church-door with all speed; The moon still continues her clear light to shed On the dance that they fearfully lead. But the dancers at length disappear one by one, And their shrouds, ere they vanish, they carefully don, And under the turf all is quiet. But one of them stumbles and shuffles there still, And gropes at the graves in despair; Yet 'tis by no comrade
Tempora labuntur, tacitisque senescimus annis, Et fugiunt freno non remorante dies. Ovid, Fastorum, Lib. vi. 'O Cæsar, we who are about to die Salute you! ' was the gladiators' cry In the arena, standing face to face With death and with the Roman populace. O ye familiar scenes,- ye groves of pine, That once were mine and are no longer mine,- Thou river, widening through the meadows green To the vast sea, so near and yet unseen,- Ye halls, in whose seclusion and repose Phantoms of fame, like exhalations, rose And vanished,- we who are about to die, Salute you; earth and air and sea and sky, And the Imperial Sun that scatters down His sovereign splendors upon grove and town. Ye do not answer us! ye do not hear! We are forgotten; and in your austere And calm indifference, ye little care Whether we come or go, or whence or where. What passing generations fill these halls, What passing voices echo from these walls, Ye heed not; we are only as the blast, A moment heard, and then forever past. Not so the teachers who in earlier days Led our bewildered feet through learning's maze; They answer us- alas! what have I said? What greetings come there from the voiceless dead? What salutation, welcome, or reply? What pressure from the hands that lifeless lie? They are no longer here; they all are gone Into the land of shadows,- all save one. Honor and reverence, and the good repute That
it was in those beautiful cool eyes the birth of my madness and an innocence demise you had no right to bring me into your cruel little world i was just a little girl i was just a little girl didn't anyone hear me f*cking scream at night, shattering their selfish pleasant dreams? no use was it crying for my mommy i don't want to hear you're sorry i don't want to hear you're sorry bared naked was my little soul you took whatever good in me and raped it whole no longer a person but this shell who'd love to watch you burn in hell love to watch you burn in hell nothing to stop you from what you did to me seething hate for you from which I'll never be free I'll never grow up to be someone's blushing bride no one would've cared if i died no one would've cared if i died nowadays still in dreams you will creep louder I heard your laughter when you made me weep inside i'm still that little girl trapped in your f*cked up world trapped in your f*cked up world _____ I know what I wrote here isn't the most pleasant of themes but this is what haunts me whenever I hear a child scream.... or when I walk by the TV when the news is on, it might be a breaking story, but believe me I know what's going on Child abuse, in any form, runs rampant in
I The dawn laughs out on orient hills And dances with the diamond rills; The ambrosial wind but faintly stirs The silken, beaded gossamers; In the wide valleys, lone and fair, Lyrics are piped from limpid air, And, far above, the pine trees free Voice ancient lore of sky and sea. Come, let us fill our hearts straightway With hope and courage of the day. II Noon, hiving sweets of sun and flower, Has fallen on dreams in wayside bower, Where bees hold honeyed fellowship With the ripe blossom of her lip; All silent are her poppied vales And all her long Arcadian dales, Where idleness is gathered up A magic draught in summer's cup. Come, let us give ourselves to dreams By lisping margins of her streams. III Adown the golden sunset way The evening comes in wimple gray; By burnished shore and silver lake Cool winds of ministration wake; O'er occidental meadows far There shines the light of moon and star, And sweet, low-tinkling music rings About the lips of haunted springs. In quietude of earth and air 'Tis meet we yield our souls to prayer.
The teacher taught; The pupils never bought the notion. Now distraught, he Slammed the door, Stomped the floor, Seeing red. The noise, the Whole commotion, Brought the Head. ‘You need your bed - you're full o' drink! ' He boomed. ‘Cripes! ' the teacher cried - A stink of booze across the room - ‘You mean that I'm denied My nightly bottle, comfy whisky? I'll have to throttle naughty you. Risky, true - To see you dead! ' By now the kids had left the room - Smoking - drunk - singing in the bogs. ‘Annoying little dogs! ' Our teacher screamed, Dropping the Head - His face completely cyanotic, The situation now chaotic. ‘Now that'll do, ' the teacher laughed. ‘I might be daft, but I'm alive To preach again - surviving those vicissitudes of life: The challenges; laying down the Lessons to the brats - I'm the boss, they're the rats! Give ‘em strife! I'll make ‘em take exams Throughout the night - what a fright They'll have. But first I'll round ‘em up to To shift the Head.' They dumped him in the garden shed Behind the mower And other paraphernalia Used to keep the grounds in order. The kids were good - no disorder While they did the master's evil deed. The teacher smiled; he'd been freed From persecution, diminution Of his rank: a lowly grade of scholar. ‘Thank you, pupils, what an honour, Now the Head has gone, But now I have to see to
The young maricones and the horny muchachas, The big fat widows delirious from insomnia, The young wives thirty hours' pregnant, And the hoarse tomcats that cross my garden at night, Like a collar of palpitating sexual oysters Surround my solitary home, Enemies of my soul, Conspirators in pajamas Who exchange deep kisses for passwords. Radiant summer brings out the lovers In melancholy regiments, Fat and thin and happy and sad couples; Under the elegant coconut palms, near the ocean and moon, There is a continual life of pants and panties, A hum from the fondling of silk stockings, And women's breasts that glisten like eyes. The salary man, after a while, After the week's tedium, and the novels read in bed at night, Has decisively fucked his neighbor, And now takes her to the miserable movies, Where the heroes are horses or passionate princes, And he caresses her legs covered with sweet down With his ardent and sweaty palms that smell like cigarettes. The night of the hunter and the night of the husband Come together like bed sheets and bury me, And the hours after lunch, when the students and priests are masturbating, And the animals mount each other openly, And the bees smell of blood, and the flies buzz cholerically, And cousins play strange games with cousins, And doctors glower at the husband of the young patient, And the early morning in which the professor, without a thought, Pays his conjugal debt and eats breakfast, And to top
(Grand Evangelical Mission,10th of May 2009, Agro Football Field, Davao City, commemorating the 123rd birth anniversary of Ka Felix Y. Manalo, God's last messenger) Throngs of believers and non-believers assembled together into one herd to cheer not up spectacular soccer game but to listen the Church of Christ evangelical expose' aim Caravans of jeeps, boats, buses alike faithful followers, marching with streamers peace-governing authority with shimmering light of overwhelming joy and unifying gratitude in celebrating God's last messenger 123rd birthday Celebration's highlights unlike pagan feasts nor mix with worldly dance, pleasure and flesh but by grace of imparting God's messages in these last days spreading plain biblical doctrines and prophecies the gospel of truth for those who are willing to be saved Literal thunderstorms and season rains are showering but they never defeats nor shakes even by little drip of attempt for the brethrens with stronghold aim rain or shine Grand Evangelical Mission begins As the ball of faith starts rolling echoing beyond soccer goal team innumerable blind-folded souls have been awaken * around 60,000 people attended this historical GEM as reported by the local TV network (ABS-CBN Davao)
1. ON A RHINE STEAMER. Republic of the West, Enlightened, free, sublime, Unquestionably best Production of our time. The telephone is thine, And thine the Pullman Car, The caucus, the divine Intense electric star. To thee we likewise owe The venerable names Of Edgar Allan Poe, And Mr. Henry James. In short it's due to thee, Thou kind of Western star, That we have come to be Precisely what we are. But every now and then, It cannot be denied, You breed a kind of men Who are not dignified, Or courteous or refined, Benevolent or wise, Or gifted with a mind Beyond the common size, Or notable for tact, Agreeable to me, Or anything, in fact, That people ought to be. 2. ON A PARISIAN BOULEVARD. Britannia rules the waves, As I have heard her say; She frees whatever slaves She meets upon her way. A teeming mother she Of Parliaments and Laws; Majestic, mighty, free: Devoid of common flaws. For here did Shakspere write His admirable plays: For her did Nelson fight And Wolseley win his bays. Her sturdy common sense Is based on solid grounds: By saving numerous pence She spends effective pounds. The Saxon and the Celt She equitably rules; Her iron rod is felt By countless knaves and fools. In fact, mankind at large, Black, yellow, white and red, Is given to her in charge, And owns her as a head. But every here and there-- Deny it if you can-- She breeds a vacant
The stranger came from Narromine and made his little joke-- "They say we folks in Narromine are narrow-minded folk. But all the smartest men down here are puzzled to define A kind of new phenomenon that came to Narromine. "Last summer up in Narromine 'twas gettin' rather warm-- Two hundred in the water bag, and lookin' like a storm-- We all were in the private bar, the coolest place in town, When out across the stretch of plain a cloud came rollin' down, "We don't respect the clouds up there, they fill us with disgust, They mostly bring a Bogan shower -- three raindrops and some dust; But each man, simultaneous-like, to each man said, 'I think That cloud suggests it's up to us to have another drink!' "There's clouds of rain and clouds of dust -- we've heard of them before, And sometimes in the daily press we read of 'clouds of war': But -- if this ain't the Gospel truth I hope that I may burst-- That cloud that came to Narromine was just a cloud of thirst. "It wasn't like a common cloud, 'twas more a sort of haze; It settled down about the streets, and stopped for days and days, And now a drop of dew could fall and not a sunbeam shine To pierce that dismal sort of mist that hung on Narromine. "Oh, Lord! we had a dreadful time beneath that cloud of thirst! We all chucked up our daily work and went upon
‘Does Happiness depend upon comfort? ’ The answer is definitely a big, ‘No! ’ Happiness lies in not comforts alone! Happiness is not a static quality of the human mind, body and soul. All can’t remain happy all the time. It would be foolishness to wish for a life, filled with happiness alone; Happiness is more when woes come in-between. Happiness is just a feeling weird! Life could become boring and monotonous, when happiness is prolonged. Even the pauper can be happier than the prince. Even the beggar smiles and sleeps well, despite much strife. Happiness is a frame of mind that’s dynamic in nature; Happiness is a kind of mood of feeling very well; Happiness is a state of one, when life seems worth living; Happiness is something strange that varies with time, experience and wisdom. Happiness is all within; Happiness is in giving; Happiness is in sharing; Happiness is the ceiling, whatever you fix! Happiness does not wholly depend on comforts; Happiness cannot be bought by money; Happiness is not all luxury; Happiness is abstract to the core! Happiness is in being child-like, though adult; Happiness is in making and seeing the less fortunate ones, smile; Happiness is in acting adult-like, although a child Happiness is in giving something to someone, although you still need it. Happiness is in sacrificing for others’ sake; Happiness is in giving up your chance to someone, who most needs it; Happiness is in doing acts of charity; Happiness is when you’ve led
When I dream the dream of paradise I see a picture of you And when I dream the dream of love and care I see a picture of us two And when I dream a dream of loneliness I see a shadow on the wall Looking back at me like I'm nothing at all But those dreams a quickly chased away When I wake up to a sunny day And I see your pretty face right by my side When I dream a dream of smiling The room is full of you And if I dream a dream of candy land The sweetest thing is you And if the nightmare comes along To say its fond goodbyes The thought of you will stop it before those dreams arise Because with you sharing my bed at night My dream will always come out right And tomorrow will always be another day If I dream a dream while I'm awake That dream will be of you If I dream a dream of wedding cakes I'll dream a dream of you And when I dream a dream of a loving wife That dream will be of you And if I dream a dream of growing old I'll be growing old with you And if my dream were ever to come true I know it will be because of you And that's the reason that I love you so. For my gorgeous wife Melissa This poem © Timothy David Cook.2011
Eradication of poverty all over the world A must and justice to the people Poverty is not at all a curse or to blame It is surely the system's failure in sharing. Poverty the most dreaded thing to experience To a thinking mind to live without food Or to the barest minimum of necessities where it is denied is a cruel thing to experience Blame the world of poverty and try for corrections Share the resources to such an equality At least for two square meals a day And minimum necessities that humans want Respect the human being and its dignity all over Surely poverty is the most objectionable thing The confidence of life losing in its bottom lines The unhelpful society accuses the poverty as fate. The world is so improved in living conditions But the system in sharing is rotten and old Change those inequalities in perfect peace Allowing the human life more possibilities and change. Life is short and human life is precious Only the world order can save the humans The world is fully capable to look after If there is a perfect world with change of mind Contentment, kindness, and humanity be preserved.
Within a pub that's off the Strand and handy to the bar, With pipe in mouth and mug in hand sat Jobson of the Star. "Come, sit ye down, ye wond'ring wight, and have a yarn," says he. "I can't," says I, "because to-night I'm off to Tripoli; To Tripoli and Trebizond and Timbuctoo mayhap, Or any magic name beyond I find upon the map. I go errant trail to try, to clutch the skirts of Chance, To make once more before I die the gesture of Romance." The Jobson yawned above his jug, and rumbled: "Is that so? Well, anyway, sit down, you mug, and have a drink before you go." Now Jobson is a chum of mine, and in a dusty den, Within the street that's known as Fleet, he wields a wicked pen. And every night it's his delight, above the fleeting show, To castigate the living Great, and keep the lowly low. And all there is to know he knows, for unto him is spurred The knowledge of the knowledge of the Thing That Has Occurred. And all that is to hear he hears, for to his ear is whirled The echo of the echo of the Sound That Shocks The World. Let Revolutions rage and rend, and Kingdoms rise and fall, There Jobson sits and smokes and spits, and writes about it all. And so we jawed a little while on matters small and great; He told me his cynic smile of graves affairs of
So you're writing for a paper? Well, it's nothing very new To be writing yards of drivel for a tidy little screw; You are young and educated, and a clever chap you are, But you'll never run a paper like the CAMBAROORA STAR. Though in point of education I am nothing but a dunce, I myself -- you mayn't believe it -- helped to run a paper once With a chap on Cambaroora, by the name of Charlie Brown, And I'll tell you all about it if you'll take the story down. On a golden day in summer, when the sunrays were aslant, Brown arrived in Cambaroora with a little printing plant And his worldly goods and chattels -- rather damaged on the way -- And a weary-looking woman who was following the dray. He had bought an empty humpy, and, instead of getting tight, Why, the diggers heard him working like a lunatic all night: And next day a sign of canvas, writ in characters of tar, Claimed the humpy as the office of the CAMBAROORA STAR. Well, I cannot read, that's honest, but I had a digger friend Who would read the paper to me from the title to the end; And the STAR contained a leader running thieves and spielers down, With a slap against claim-jumping, and a poem made by Brown. Once I showed it to a critic, and he said 'twas very fine, Though he wasn't long in finding glaring faults in every line; But
A glass of cheap vodka tastes just like depression - It hurts to be sober tonight. The mirror reflects such a hideous expression That I promptly turn off the light. Some porno, then casual sex with my hand... Oh damn! This is something I shouldn't have said. Why don't you believe that I need no boyfriend - No problems, no worries, no tears, no regret? Romance is dead, And so am I, I can't forget My perfect lie. I still recall The times we had. Oh well, that's all. Romance is dead. I can't fall asleep, so I get on the net, Where I claim to be an online super-wh-, I find guys like you just to make them all fret, My tease makes them want me, but they can't get more Than flirt for some minutes, some sexual tension And then disconnect. Their muse disappears. I've had a good time with these cruel intentions - Enough for today. See you later, my dear. Romance is dead, And so am I, I can't forget My perfect lie. I still recall The times we had. Oh well, that's all. Romance is dead. Romance is dead! You say it is stupid, it doesn't make sense, But you are the first to have buried romance.
The end of time is comming, the signs all say it's true. Satan is on the loose, he's attacking me and you. But I can't wait until that day, when he is eternally bound. I'll be in the sky with Jesus, and I'll be Heaven bound. I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound, Jesus is the reason, that I am Heaven bound. If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds, Just believe in Jesus and and you'll be Heaven bound. Don't wait until tomorrow, you may not have that long, Jesus is the answer, to what ever you've done wrong. Just call upon His Holy Name and He'll be able to say, Come in my faithful servant, on that Judgement Day. I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound, Jesus is the reason, that I'm Heaven bound. If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds, Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be heaven bound. When I get to Heaven, and walk those streets of gold, Stand before the King of Kings, with all those Saints of old, I know when I get there, I'll be on Holy Ground, Glory Hallelauh! I am Heaven bound. I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound, Jesus is the reason, that I'm Heaven bound. If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds, Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be Heaven bound. Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be Heaven bound.
(for Rona, Jeremy, Sam & Grace) All the lizards are asleep-- perched pagodas with tiny triangular tiles, each milky lid a steamed-up window. Inside, the heart repeats itself like a sleepy gong, summoning nothing to nothing. In winter time, the zoo reverts to metaphor, God's poetry of boredom: the cobra knits her Fair-Isle skin, rattlers titter over the same joke. All of them endlessly finish spaghetti. The python runs down like a spring, and time stops on some ancient Sabbath. Pythagorean bees are shut inside the hive, which hymns and hums like Sunday chapel-- drowsy thoughts in a wrinkled brain. The fire's gone out-- crocodiles lie like wet beams, cross-hatched by flames that no one can remember. Grasshoppers shiver, chafe their limbs and try to keep warm, crouching on their marks perpetually. The African cricket is trussed like a cold chicken: the sneeze of movement returns it to the same position, in the same body. There is no change. The rumple-headed lion has nowhere to go and snoozes in his grimy combinations. A chaise lounge with missing castors, the walrus is stuck forever on his rock. Sleepily, the seals play crib, scoring on their upper lips. The chimps kill fleas and time, sewing nothing to nothing Five o'clock--perhaps. Vultures in their shabby Sunday suits fidget with broken umbrellas, while the ape beats his breast and yodels out repentance. Their feet are an awful dream of bunions-- but the buffalo's brazil nut bugle-horns can never sound reveille.
i always see to it that i understand what a family is when we went to a trip we make the pact inside the plane that moment when we step upon the plastic floors of the tarmac i have already seen the hint we understand i repeat we always understand when we were there at the saigon shopping complex we too understand the family segregates as one block shields itself from our interference we understand that and so we too have to create our own path go somewhere else to the market to the park to the palace of the president we must learn to enjoy things by ourselves we are not really a family but splinters of dreams one must realize to each his own no dependence one makes a story fabricates the rest of the characters develops the plot complicate matters and then arrive at the resolution of the big conflict finally i decide a poem is better this way intrepid, limpid, crisscross, wanting to open but must only show the closed door to reveal but only to arrive at the consensus that it is better concealed mouths silent, lips sealed hands that dance in the sky enclosing the fingers with the sun
Sir, Our times are much degenerate from those Which your sweet muse with your fair fortune chose, And as complexions alter with the climes, Our wits have drawn the infection of our times. That candid age no other way could tell To be ingenious, but by speaking well. Who best could praise had then the greatest praise, 'Twas more esteemed to give than bear the bays: Modest ambition studied only then To honour not herself but worthy men. These virtues now are banished out of town, Our Civil Wars have lost the civic crown. He highest builds, who with most art destroys, And against others' fame his own employs. I see the envious caterpillar sit On the fair blossom of each growing wit. The air's already tainted with the swarms Of insects which against you rise in arms: Word-peckers, paper-rats, book-scorpions, Of wit corrupted, the unfashioned sons. The barbèd censurers begin to look Like the grim consistory on thy book; And on each line cast a reforming eye, Severer than the young presbytery. Till when in vain they have thee all perused, You shall, for being faultless, be accused. Some reading your Lucasta will allege You wronged in her the House's privelege. Some that you under sequestration are, And one the book prohibits, because Kent Their first petition by the author sent. But when the beauteous ladies came to know That their dear Lovelace was endangered so: Lovelace that thawed the most congealèd breast -- He who loved best and
They knew of racism and police abuse And for retalitation the Kellys they had an excuse Ned and Dan Kelly's sister Kate was raped by a man of the law In the dehumanizing of the Kellys that was the last straw. The lawman who raped Kate Kelly for his crimes did not pay And before condemning the Kelly gang and bad things of them say If the same thing did happen to your family Than they did would you have acted differently? In the old Beechworth prison where Ned Kelly served time For horse stealing that does not seem such a great crime In a small draughty cell on an earthen floor he slept In worse living conditions any dog never kept. Ned and Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne paid for their ill fame And each in their own right a legendary name And though all of them did go to an early grave It can be said of them that they did die brave. Glenrowan where the Kelly gang made their last stand A historical old Town in the Southern Land Disrespect for their families the lawmen did show And things might have been different for them did they receive a fair go.
Take the name of the swain, a forlorn witless elf Who was chang'd to a flow'r for admiring himself. A part deem'd essential in each lady's dress With what maidens cry when they wish to say yes. A lullabye carriage, soft, cozy and light With the name of the Poet who sang on the night. The queen of Cairo, all lovely and winning Whose blandishments ever kept Antony grinning. The flow'r whose odors unremittingly please: With the glory of forests, the king of the trees. To the prince of the fairies, a jealous old knave, Put the name of the tree that undid Mother Eve. To finish the whole, add that period of day When the linnet and thrush to repose hie away. The initials of these, if adjusted with care. Will show you the fairest where thousands are fair. The sweet, pretty graces still hover about her And Cupid would die with vexation without her. When she swims in the dance or wherever she goes She's crowded by witlings, plain-fellows, and beaux Who throng at her elbow and tread on her toes. If a pin or a hankerchief happen to fall To seize on the prise fills with uproar the ball; Such pulling and hawling & shoving & pushing As rivals the racket of 'key and the cushion; ' And happy- thrice happy! too happy! the swain Who can replace the pin or bandana again. Tho the fellows surround & so humbly adore her The girls on the contrary
(Parvati at her lattice) O Love! were you a basil-wreath to twine among my tresses, A jewelled clasp of shining gold to bind around my sleeve, O Love! were you the keora's soul that haunts my silken raiment, A bright, vermilion tassel in the girdles that I weave; O Love! were you the scented fan that lies upon my pillow, A sandal lute, or silver lamp that burns before my shrine, Why should I fear the jealous dawn that spreads with cruel laughter, Sad veils of separation between your face and mine? Haste, O wild-bee hours, to the gardens of the sun set! Fly, wild-parrot day, to the orchards of the west! Come, O tender night, with your sweet, consoling darkness, And bring me my Beloved to the shelter of my breast! (Amar Singh in the saddle) O Love! were you the hooded hawk upon my hand that flutters, Its collar-band of gleaming bells atinkle as I ride, O Love! were you a turban-spray or floating heron-feather, The radiant, swift, unconquered sword that swingeth at my side; O Love! were you a shield against the arrows of my foemen, An amulet of jade against the perils of the way, How should the drum-beats of the dawn divide me from your bosom, Or the union of the midnight be ended with the day? Haste, O wild-deer hours, to the meadows of the sunset! Fly, wild stallion day, to the pastures of the west! Come, O tranquil night, with your soft, consenting
In absolute oblivion With nature and the forces of existence Into play Thousands years of history Written Some relics and the forgotten one Gods word or the wise mans talk Deriving meaning from the stars Sun and the moon Goddesses and deities The great abstraction In the realm of thought Freedom remains the desire Freedom from the bonds of the humanity Freedom from all wants Freedom from the will of others Imposed or perpetuated Freedom from ideas In the name of social consciousness In the collective realm of the society Of life and death Life in community A dream sought after The breaking of shackles Of ideas and the iron chain The evolutionist’s theory of having attained modernity The matrix of life stuck between falsehood and reality With great illusions Get into the realm of total freedom Away from the connections and strings Whose other ends are controlled in places distant Out from the mischief of the fate defined as luck Make death the ultimate inspiration Whirling into circles for the last freedom That too is another thread of making the other being As a final destiny of union Unite with thyself Leave alone all the philosophies and doctrines Religions and beliefs Hold the wine cup of total freedom All alone Without any god or fate Discover for thyself The ultimate truth Enter total freedom From self to self Leave the saki Drunk with the wine of total freedom Declare it to the world For the god to listen For
Oh! My mama, happy mother’s day You are the greatest mother I have ever had You are my mother today You will be my mother tomorrow You are always my mother You will forever be my mother Thank you my mother for bringing me into this world Thank you my mother for taking care of me in your womb Thank you my mother caring for me as a toddler Thank you my mother for feeding me since I was a baby Thank you my mother for all the clothes you bought for me Thank you my mother for teaching me good manners at home Thank you my mother for sending me to school Thank you my mother for supervising my homework Thank you my mother for ensuring I eat before going to school Thank you my mother for all the regular pocket money Thank you my mother for liking my friends Thank you my mother for all the everyday advices My mother always remind me that fingers are not equal As I grow up, I have seen the correlation of this analogy To many human beings, neighbors, societies and nationalities Oh! My mama, thank you for your words of wisdom My mother taught me many things that I have never read in books Thank you my mother for all your guiding philosophies Oh! My mama, I sincerely wish everyday could be Mother’s Day One day in a year is not enough to thank my wonderful mother Oh! My mama, I
unwise find tempting habit learned helplessness corrodes victim souls event exposes life adverse stimuli eats wears away gnaws heart in hate reactions impaired personalities jealousy corroded characters deteriorated hearts minds endores learned helplessness review study mental states soul trapped organic organisms people displaced in bodies aversive stimuli forced to endure painful unpleasant repeat stimuli produces scare shell encased souls trauma shell shock broken victims confined upon tragedy life planes repeated horrors wears down tar set trapped souls unable unwilling to flee fear forthcoming encounters unable to avoid escape out run subsequent encounters damaging stimuli is not always avoidable escapable unwise dependency find tempting manipulation habit learned desired helplessness corrodes player victim souls dependency was acquired compassion sympathy seekers sought symbiosis learned shell cast coping techniques when tar trapped in cannot control horror situations learned helplessness is experience contracted molasses binding mental state organism was fear forced to endure aversive stimuli stimuli sizzles painful unpleasant trauma terror errodes suffering soul victim becomes unable unwilling to avoid subsequent encounters with stress inflicted stimuli even if escapable previous brutality taught victim has trauma learned it cannot control situations elephant wooden peg bound learned helplessness theory is another explaination theory let us take a prescribed view clinical depression is related to cousin mental illnesses perhaps close kissing cousins cause might be perceived absence of personal control over outcome truma situation pet clinical studies indicate organisms that have not been ineffective are less sensitive in determining consequences of their own behaviour patterns... quick give rat
When you expected the sun to shine but the rain poured instead do not feel frustrated, seize the moment to take respite from the burdens of the day. Be delighted that the foilage are happy to be sprinkled freely; When you feel old and notice the luster of youth lacks sparkle, don't worry be happy. Seize the moment and take pride that aging is rewarded with wisdom which the young ones will achieve many years far away; When you failed to achieve something you thought was designed for you, do not regret or be weary. Destiny had align you for what you are today, seize the moment and shout victory; When you drop or forget your shopping list, do not attempt to make another one. Seize the moment and enjoy a shopping spree once in a blue moon while you can; When you think you are strange or eccentric person, do not feel outcast. There are millions of us with oddity who are kind hearted free spirited Homo Sapiens. Seize the moment and wear your crown as King or Queen of Oddballs Par Excecellence; CARPE DIEM, Seize the moment whatever life confronts you. For this moment is like a river you can never step twice. Treat your moments like a poetry in motion where into the depthness of your heart and soul, you and only you, can decipher the meaning behind the rhymes and rhythm.
Around the hub, the galaxies turn Pinwheels scrubbed, in magnetic urn Gravity attracts, while motion glides Equal force acts, to sustain the rides The Milky Way, is towed along Its center conveyed, by nature's song The flux lines strum, as they pass by A radio hum, an electrical sigh And so it be, with our own sun By magnetic sea, its field is spun The axial spin, then thus does tow It's satellites in an induction row The best conductors turn fairly fast While the resistors last with the past Lines of force roll round the outside Because the course is too dense inside When the field of the planet is low It tends to yield all turning flow If more than one set of poles it has It will turn yet, but less as lines pass < br> nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
Trust in man was lost today Trust in man that is never quite regained Trust was lost when you started to betray Trust was lost when you didn't care enough to say Trust was lost when you used me as your social play Trust was lost when you hurt me in front of family and those that used me as prey Trust was lost when you denied me of my greatest day Trust was lost when you ignored my loves and hates Trust was lost when you borrowed and never repaid Trust was lost when I gave and you treated me as a slave Trust was lost when I cared and all you wanted was pay Trust was lost when I loved and you treated me as the fool Trust was lost when I had a great passion and you treated it as a ration Trust was lost when I looked in your eyes and saw the truth, but you continued to lie Trust was lost when I asked you to help and you never even tried Trust was found and everything turned around When I lowered my head and looked up to the Masters stead Trust was found and with it came the sound of the beginning to an eternal round For on that day trust was found Trust becomes sound, only when man looks around and realizes that The only trust to be found is in him-self and the one that gave us ground TRUST WAS FOUND!
I asked the Muse Whither America? 'I see millions in the broken cities crowding debt, unhappiness. I see families un-affordable, single parents struggling; . I see the children no longer able to afford the big houses and the old ones abandon the homestead, and crowd back to the cities. The young ones can't find work; its five to a house. . The Americans, the British, the Italians the Russians, all of Western Europe can not duplicate themselves and they perish replaced by the poor ones from the South and the East. All the world comes together to confront Destiny. Whither the Planet? But hope there is: There will be in America repatriation of the rural lands; the abandonment of the cites and massive building of rural technology-based enclaves; smart technology driven, green based and self sufficient. America's salvation there. Economies will move toward barter exchange because currency will fail, replaced by new systems and gains in efficiency Government will devolve to less control less bureaucracy; more local control weak confederations instead. The village life returns. Crafts replace portions of profit-based technology. Old skills of self-sufficiency revive. Nation states are weakened, and cross-national enclaves emerge where ideas cross boundaries. Real democracy will thrive in smaller settings. This will be whether there is disaster or planning for this. Disaster will give us small enclaves but bands of mauraders and bandit bands who leave the cites when the five day supply of food gives out; their enclaves are forced and violent. The better
The predecessors of humans lived in forests The hunter gatherers they fought with nature and wild But seldom they destroyed the wild, flora and fauna In such vast terms of events the world witnessing. They killed the animals for food and skins And also to protect themselves from their attacks But we the civilized ones opted it for pleasure For making money out of the ill gotten ways By continuing the killing spree as poachers. The bison, wild boars, elephants, and tigers The king of wild the Lion, and the hippos The rhenos, sambars, and beautiful other wildlife Slowly and purposely destructing by fire arms In fact the human being acts as the destiny makers Of all the wild life which is to be objected. This beautiful world and forests are entitled to all For the humans as well as the wildlife we know Save the world from perishes and protect the wildlife As well as the forest which have immense wealth Not only for today or tomorrow but upto the infinite time. keep away from the greed and make us contented.
No need to be confined in a net of knitted straws no need to be afraid of lightning and thunders of the clouds no need to hide behind the feathers of a mother bird now you don't need the shoulders of a father bird. The gown you wore is enough to protect you in the flights to come. My daughter bird I know it's raining heavily lightning and thunders of the clouds are frightening but the gown is an umbrella against all evils of the clouds ignoring the evils of the clouds be safe and secured in the beautiful rains the clouds provide, the pleasant winds will bounce back a little mild showers you need. Beauty of rains is infinite and its threats are finite. Now fly below the skies and pluck the twinkling diamonds. We are here in the nest, the same old knitted net of straws. Let us pay thanks to the kind and benevolent ancient light filtered through the greenery of a tree reflected and refracted that are still showing mini rainbows. Forming a beam of shining dust particles of aging, with a positive approach we can see even dust as a beauty. Let us capture memories of incubating a beautiful egg let us forget the fatigues of incubation, and let us pay thanks to God who bestowed upon us and gave us a right egg for incubation!
Then Almitra spoke, saying, "We would ask now of Death." And he said: You would know the secret of death. But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life? The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light. If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life. For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one. In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond; And like seeds dreaming beneath the snow your heart dreams of spring. Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity. Your fear of death is but the trembling of the shepherd when he stands before the king whose hand is to be laid upon him in honour. Is the shepherd not joyful beneath his trembling, that he shall wear the mark of the king? Yet is he not more mindful of his trembling? For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun? And what is to cease breathing, but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered? Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing. And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb. And when the
I hate the way you look at me, And the way you stand and stare, I hate how you have a lame excuse, For almost never being there. I hate it when you always drink, And always raise your voice, I hate it most when you call me her, You’re leaving me no choice. I hate it when you turn your back, And mumble ‘not tonight’ I hate it when you go away, And then turn your mobile off all night. I hate it when you sometimes lie, And keep your secrets deep, I hate it when you don’t want sex, Or lie away from me to sleep. I hate the way you make me feel, When fit girls give you attention, I hate the fact my love is real, And the way you snub my affection. I hate it when you get me mad, And when you make me cry, I hate it when I wake up sad, Those days I just want to die. I hate it when you make me laugh, And the way you read my mind, I hate that annoying music you play, And the way you’re always kind. I hate the fact I don’t hate you, And how I never will, Its just you piss me off, You make me want to kill. I hate it that you’re good in bed, When you feel the need, I hate it when you’re in my head, And make my thoughts seem easy to read. I hate
Like The Goddess of the Sea Like A Mermaid In Heaven Shrouded in the icy blue sea, accompanied by the sun phoenix's rays lingering and dancing in the water, She hides in the water where the sun glared into the sea, She is beloved by sailors and pirates, They all want to feel her ocean heart of love in the forbidden sea, But sometimes she can be devious, Sometimes you can see her in the mist where hazy smokey clouds block the sun, Her head popping out of the her and you can see her glowing heaven devious eyes piercing through the gray mist staring into your firelight soul, Sailors would give anything to be with her, they would lure into her trap and she will twist their warm sun raving hearts into cold and fozen ice, Even though they heard about this beautiful creature, they would still go after her and hunt for her pearl ocean heart, Their's something about her that make every guy crazy she mesmerize their minds and hearts, making them into bloodless zombies swimming blind into the sea but guided by the pulses of her aura, You can hear laughter echoing in the fog and Adventurers would swim in the middle of the ocean for her, but before they reached her, something lurking in the shadows of the ocean reached them first and drag them under the sea, filling their lungs of hollow water because they tried to reach to a angel in the water
Today's the day we honor you, send love and blessings too. Our prayers for you to know true joy through what you say and do. Rejoice in your accomplishments for you have come so far, A milestone and a victory that's brought you where you are. And as you hold your head up high, embrace that scroll in hand, Just hold that vision of the joy and honor where you stand. For this exhilaration is the power that you'll find, Propels and fuels the dreams you dream, the passions in your mind. Those dreams can take you anywhere; believe that you can be And settle not for getting by or mediocrity. Enjoy and celebrate your day; remember as you go, Your past and all your memories, the happiness you know. Hold this treasure in your heart and walk with pride today. Your road ahead has just begun; you'll soon be on your way. A road that's filled with obstacles and opportunity; Your choice to see what you will see, to be what you will be. One door will close with scroll in hand, your gateway to begin; With seeds to be a shining star whose time has come to win.
If you wake at midnight, and hear a horse's feet, Don't go drawing back the blind, or looking in the street. Them that ask no questions isn't told a lie. Watch the wall, my darling, while the Gentlemen go by! Five and twenty ponies, Trotting through the dark -- Brandy for the Parson, 'Baccy for the Clerk; Laces for a lady, letters for a spy, And watch the wall, my darling, while the Gentlemen go by! Running round the woodlump if you chance to find Little barrels, roped and tarred, all full of brandy-wine, Don't you shout to come and look, nor use 'em for your play. Put the brishwood back again -- and they'll be gone next day! If you see the stable-door setting open wide; If you see a tired horse lying down inside; If your mother mends a coat cut about and tore; If the lining's wet and warm -- don't you ask no more! If you meet King George's men, dressed in blue and red, You be carefull what you say, and mindful what is said. If they call you "pretty maid," and chuck you 'neath the chin, Don't you tell where no one is, nor yet where no one's been! Knocks and footsteps round the house -- whistles after dark -- You've no call for running out till the house-dogs bark. Trusty's here, and Pincher's here, and see how dumb they lie -- They don't fret to follow when the Gentlemen go by! If you
Through many a fragrant cedar grove A darkened water moans; And there pale Memory stood with Love Amongst the moss-green stones. The shimmering sunlight fell and kissed The grasstree’s golden sheaves; But we were troubled with a mist Of music in the leaves. One passed us, like a sudden gleam; Her face was deadly fair. “Oh, go,” we said, “you homeless Dream Of Ella’s shining hair! “We halt, like one with tired wings, And we would fain forget That there are tempting, maddening things Too high to clutch at yet! “Though seven Springs have filled the Wood With pleasant hints and signs, Since faltering feet went forth and stood With Death amongst the pines.” From point to point unwittingly We wish to clamber still, Till we have light enough to see The summits of the hill. “O do not cry, my sister dear,” Said beaming Hope to Love, “Though we have been so troubled here The Land is calm above; “Beyond the regions of the storm We’ll find the golden gates, Where, all the day, a radiant Form, Our Ella, sits and waits.” And Memory murmured: “She was one Of God’s own darlings lent; And Angels wept that she had gone, And wondered why she went. “I know they came, and talked to her, Through every garden breeze, About eternal Hills of Myrrh, And quiet Jasper Seas. “For her the Earth contained no charms; All things were strange and wild; And I believe a Seraph’s arms Caught up the sainted
Racism is the deadliest form of cancer For our society, it is a serious danger Racism is a form of terror Racism is a cancerous disease It is about ignorance and prejudice It is in the streets, it is in the air It is volatile, it is everywhere. Racism is like a chameleon It is a fatal and lethal weapon Racism is a form of hatred and bigotry It is a false sense of superiority By many ignorant goons with a light pigmentation It is about false ideologies and strange perception It is about being evil and using unfair practices It is about discriminating on false pretenses. Not all obnoxious racists lack some forms of education Many of them have advanced degrees, their contention Is that those steadfast fools want to protect the status quos They create all types of standard in order to block Or prevent Non-Whites from reaching their potentials They discriminate, humiliate, make fun of and mocked Anybody that they consider weak intellectually Or inferior. Racism is about hate, greed, and bigotry. Racism is about prejudice, shame, and ignorance It is about not giving somebody a one-time chance It is about not second guessing. They just start shooting Killing, destroying, discriminating and annihilating Racism is about insecurity, and putting up blocks Some Caucasians and others feel better than or superior To Asians, Indians, Africans, Afro- Americans or Blacks Those Whites have a mental state which is inferior Deficient, weak, hollow, feeble, unstable, and challenged Regardless, many Whites
I In days when men had joy of war, A God of Battles sped each mortal jar; The peoples pledged him heart and hand, From Israel's land to isles afar. II His crimson form, with clang and chime, Flashed on each murk and murderous meeting-time, And kings invoked, for rape and raid, His fearsome aid in rune and rhyme. III On bruise and blood-hole, scar and seam, On blade and bolt, he flung his fulgid beam: His haloes rayed the very gore, And corpses wore his glory-gleam. IV Often an early King or Queen, And storied hero onward, knew his sheen; 'Twas glimpsed by Wolfe, by Ney anon, And Nelson on his blue demesne. V But new light spread. That god's gold nimb And blazon have waned dimmer and more dim; Even his flushed form begins to fade, Till but a shade is left of him. VI That modern meditation broke His spell, that penmen's pleadings dealt a stroke, Say some; and some that crimes too dire Did much to mire his crimson cloak. VII Yea, seeds of crescive sympathy Were sown by those more excellent than he, Long known, though long contemned till then - The gods of men in amity. VIII Souls have grown seers, and thought out-brings The mournful many-sidedness of things With foes as friends, enfeebling ires And fury-fires by gaingivings! IX He scarce impassions champions now; They do and dare, but tensely--pale of brow; And would they fain uplift the arm Of that faint form
The Farmer quit what he was at, The bee-hive he was smokin': He tilted back his old straw hat-- Says he, 'Young man, you're jokin'! O Lordy! (Lord, forgive the swar,) Ain't ye a cheeky sinner? Come, if I give my gal thar, Where would _you_ find her dinner? 'Now look at _me_; I settl'd down When I was one and twenty, Me, and my axe and Mrs. Brown, And stony land a plenty. Look up thar! ain't that homestead fine, And look at them thar cattle: I tell ye since that early time I've fit a tidy battle. 'It kinder wrestles down a man To fight the stuns and mire: But I sort of clutch'd to thet thar plan Of David and Goliar. Want was the mean old Philistine That strutted round the clearin', Of pebbles I'd a hansum line, And flung 'em nothin' fearin'. 'They hit him square, right whar they ought, Them times I _had_ an arm! I lick'd the giant and I bought A hundred acre farm. My gal was born about them days, I was mowin' in the medder; When some one comes along and says-- 'The wife's gone thro' the shadder!' 'Times thought it was God's will she went-- Times thought she work'd too slavin'-- And for the young one that was sent, I took to steady savin'. Jest cast your eye on that thar hill The sugar bush just tetches, And round by Miller Jackson's mill, All round the farm stretches. ''Ain't got
Because living is a river of ordinary moments, each moment connected to the next, there is nowhere we can go to escape from our fate which is to merge every swell of the stream back into the ordinary, and all I can hope for is that gentle, light sense of well-being as my little canoe bobs in the current of everyday, sailing downstream, ever downstream. I am stunned by the beauty of the ordinary, so that sometimes the ordinary seems mis-named, and yet it is ordinary because it is quiet with no fanfare: a man picking his way through the oranges at the farmer's market, a woman taking a leisurely bath, a child playing in the grass in the back yard, all the people in a street just walking. No one is enthroned above every one else, this river is absolutely democratic, every thrill, every intoxication flows on downstream as does, sooner or later, every sorrow, every loss, though those are a little harder, the hole seems to take longer for the waters to fill. No one is famous to the ordinary, you can't impress it. The ordinary is the real wife of every man, the real husband of every woman. It is where you return from all your expeditions, and it is all anyone could ever truly want. And so today, when I received fulfillment of a certain small desire I'd had as a poet, and I felt hands starting to tug at me inside, trying to take me
O fleece, that down the neck waves to the nape! O curls! O perfume nonchalant and rare! O ecstasy! To fill this alcove shape With memories that in these tresses sleep, I would shake them like penions in the air! Languorous Asia, burning Africa, And a far world, defunct almost, absent, Within your aromatic forest stay! As other souls on music drift away, Mine, O my love! still floats upon your scent. I shall go there where, full of sap, both tree And man swoon in the heat of the southern climates; Strong tresses be the swell that carries me! I dream upon your sea of amber Of dazzling sails, of oarsmen, masts, and flames: A sun-drenched and reverberating port, Where I imbibe colour and sound and scent; Where vessels, gliding through the gold and moiré, Open their vast arms as they leave the shore To clasp the pure and shimmering firmament. I'll plunge my head, enamored of its pleasure, In this black ocean where the other hides; My subtle spirit then will know a measure Of fertile idleness and fragrant leisure, Lulled by the infinite rhythm of its tides! Pavilion, of autumn-shadowed tresses spun, You give me back the azure from afar; And where the twisted locks are fringed with down Lurk mingled odors I grow drunk upon Of oil of coconut, of musk, and tar. A long time! always! my hand in your hair Will sow the stars of sapphire, pearl, ruby, That you be never deaf to
That summer, we did not simply walk through the valley of the shadow of death; we set up camp there, orchestrating funerals for the anonymous, found dead: a drowned mole—its small, naked palms still pink—a crushed box turtle, green snake, even a lowly toad. The last and most elaborate of the burials was for a common jay, identifiable but light and dry, its eyes vacant orbits. We built a delicate lichgate of willow fronds, supple, green—laced through with chains of clover. Straggling congregation, we recited what we could of the psalm about green pastures as we lowered the shoebox and its wilted pall of dandelions into the shallow grave one of us had dug with a serving spoon. That afternoon, just before September and school, when we would again become children, and blind to all but the blackboard's chalky lessons, the back of someone's head, and what was, for a while longer, the rarer, human death—there, in the heat-shimmered trees, in the matted grasses where we stood, even in the slant of humid shade— we heard wingbeat, slither, buzz, and birdsong— a green racket rising to fall as though in a joyous dirge that was real, and not part of our many, necessary rehearsals
Built from great constellations and long forgotten rivers I give you my restless poems without regret. Yes it’s true that I’ve been on the move lately and have little time to talk. What can I say but that from this day forward, I can only promise you vague dreams and curious facts. Yes, I keep moving, thats understood, but please tell me something, from which ocean did you arrive, was it during summer? or after a winters storm? Was the moon out that night? My restless longing needs to know these things. My thirst grows toward oblivion; I need to feel the ocean move towards the shore. I need to watch the stars so none go missing. I need to keep learning about roses and things until I know absolutely nothing at all. Really it’s true, and it’s not my fault that I live without a compass and that my love grows wildly in no particular direction. Will you excuse me now, as I put distance between you, me and this poem.
They met back when they were both young She gave him the love and the hope that he Needed to fulfill his dreams Now she is the lost angel he misses at night She watches over him day and night Trying to keep him out of harms way Never knowing if he'll listen to her whispers of warning and love A lost angel to him Yet she's not so far away Trying to get through to him To let him know she's okay 'I'll never leave you I'll never stop loving you I'll always be here for you just call my name' She is constantly whispering that to her lover Letting him know that she hasn't left him She will constantly be near in his heart to protect and love him He may think she is a lost angel but if he listens to the wind she is talking to him constantly A lost angel with a goal To protect and love the one she loves To guide him through until the right time Always whispering and saying 'Call my name and I'll be there' She doesn't want him to stop loving others Actually she wants him to live his life After all there is time for her to love and protect him 'Wait until the time is right You will know when it is time to come home to me For I will be there with open arms To hold you close and never let go' 'Always know that
What ever happened to the husband and wife What ever happened to love What ever happened to the dreams they thought right That they both thought so much of What ever happened to the holding of hands Or the whispers of secrets to keep Did it somehow slip away with the time Is it somewhere still hidden beneath What ever happened to the words I do Replaced now with words of cruel Does somehow it still linger on Is love only lost and confused What ever happened to the romance And the love that was in each breath we took Must somehow be forgotten now Was this in the chances we took What ever happened to the husband and wife What ever happened to love What will now happen to the rest of our lives For love, was it overlooked What will now happen to the dreams we once had When the world was right at our feet Is love somehow still hidden somewhere Or is this the way it must be There once was a time when it meant so much more When love walked with us in life What ever happened to the love in our hearts What happened to the husband and wife. copyright 2004 Bill Simmons aka BillWilliamStar@aol.com
A BEST FRIEND-Makes a lunch trade with you even if he doesn't love peanut butter and jelly. A BEST FRIEND-Notices you standing alone by the fence and invites you to play hockey with the rest of the class. A BEST FRIEND-Chooses you to go camping with him each summer. A BEST FRIEND-Puts chalk in the teacher's eraser so you're not the only one who has to stay after school. A BEST FRIEND-Smiles and offers a firm handshake when you make the high school baseball team and he doesn't. A BEST FRIEND-Makes you feel just a little bit better every time you talk to him. A BEST FRIEND-Calls you when he moves into his new dorm room. A BEST FRIEND-Calls you for no reason at all. A BEST FRIEND-Mentions you each week when he kneels before his Maker. A BEST FRIEND-Never reveals the secret you told him the night you slept over his house when you were in third grade. A BEST FRIEND-Remembers who your favorite baseball player is. A BEST FRIEND-Makes you get out of bed earlier and give your best to each day. A BEST FRIEND-Is someone I thank God for everyday.
My books I'd fain cast off, I cannot read, 'Twixt every page my thoughts go stray at large Down in the meadow, where is richer feed, And will not mind to hit their proper targe. Plutarch was good, and so was Homer too, Our Shakespeare's life were rich to live again, What Plutarch read, that was not good nor true, Nor Shakespeare's books, unless his books were men. Here while I lie beneath this walnut bough, What care I for the Greeks or for Troy town, If juster battles are enacted now Between the ants upon this hummock's crown? Bid Homer wait till I the issue learn, If red or black the gods will favor most, Or yonder Ajax will the phalanx turn, Struggling to heave some rock against the host. Tell Shakespeare to attend some leisure hour, For now I've business with this drop of dew, And see you not, the clouds prepare a shower-- I'll meet him shortly when the sky is blue. This bed of herd's grass and wild oats was spread Last year with nicer skill than monarchs use. A clover tuft is pillow for my head, And violets quite overtop my shoes. And now the cordial clouds have shut all in, And gently swells the wind to say all's well; The scattered drops are falling fast and thin, Some in the pool, some in the flower-bell. I am well drenched upon my bed of oats; But see that globe come rolling down its stem, Now
Like the easily startled deer, A horse is prone to fear. Millennia of being prey, Has built an instinct to run away. I'm sure you can understand, That courage and fear go hand in hand. In 2011, Tonk the stallion, Was worthy of a medallion. He ignored the call to flight, And chose to stay and fight, When a 700 pound grizzly bear, Appeared out of thin air, And chased an 8 year old boy, His father's pride and joy. Tonk's rider was Erin Bolster, She had no weapon or holster. Her last name means 'to support', But you never would have thought, She'd look the bear in the eye, And let out a valiant cry, "I'll not stand by, And watch this boy die! " Now Tonk was 18 hands in height, An angel dressed in white. He chose to stay and fight, When other horses took flight. Three times this brave pair, Charged headlong at the bear, Staring into his fearsome face, Until at last he left the place. Afterwards Tonk could not stop shaking, He'd been so close to breaking. Those scary looking jaws, And mighty sharp claws, Had made him so upset, His coat was drenched with sweat. So the bravest animal I know, Is similar to a nervous doe, It's a white Percheron draft horse, Called Tonk of course! David Letterman let the world know, When our heroes appeared on his show. This gentle giant made so many smile, And forget their worries for quite
That arresting fear! That crippling fear! That haunting fear! Spirit wrecking fear! Fear of loss of love You court broken hearts Accompany the rejected Celebrate loss of loved ones Before you many die defeated Fear of failure You cleverly drown success Whispering believable doubts Thief of dream-chests You tout dreamers’ walkouts Fear of poverty You chain the poor in misery Kill off initiatives, ambition Feed worry and uncertainty Bring indecision and procrastination Fear of Criticism You work on self-doubts Wreck self-esteem Make-believe what others thought You kill possible dreams Fear of ill-health and death You wait with scythe at hell’s door Lure weaklings into traps of wealth Peddle illnesses, deaths your score Devastate families, sell your wreaths Fear of old age You breed insecurity of dependence Steal pride and honour You rob freedom, after-life assurance Bring on old-age wine’s stupor I fear you, Sir Fear You, father of lies Father of all fears Who marries you, dies! 1.10.2015
All the night in woe, Lyca's parents go: Over vallies deep. While the desarts weep. Tired and woe-begone. Hoarse with making moan: Arm in arm seven days. They trac'd the desert ways. Seven nights they sleep. Among shadows deep: And dream they see their child Starvdd in desart wild. Pale thro' pathless ways The fancied image strays. Famish'd, weeping, weak With hollow piteous shriek Rising from unrest, The trembling woman prest, With feet of weary woe; She could no further go. In his arms he bore. Her arm'd with sorrow sore: Till before their way A couching lion lay. Turning back was vain, Soon his heavy mane. Bore them to the ground; Then he stalk'd around. Smelling to his prey, But their fears allay, When he licks their hands: And silent by them stands. They look upon his eyes Fill'd with deep surprise: And wondering behold. A spirit arm'd in gold. On his head a crown On his shoulders down, Flow'd his golden hair. Gone was all their care. Follow me he said, Weep not for the maid; In my palace deep. Lyca lies asleep. Then they followed, Where the vision led; And saw their sleeping child, Among tygers wild. To this day they dwell In a lonely dell Nor fear the wolvish howl, Nor the lion's growl.
We meet many people in life, Some just appear and disappear too Like pretty butterflies, Some stay for a while leaving behind A sweet-scented fragrance of a flower, Few stay longer, Intense friendship while it lasted, Then, gone suddenly, only To reminisce as a pleasant memory! But there are a few, That you can count on your fingers, That stay steady and strong, Firmly rooted like a Peepal tree, Throughout your life. One such friend of mine is Shireen Isal! We met each other professionally Thirty three years ago, When I was an aspiring danseuse. She watched me dance Mohiniattam And before I knew what was happening in my life, I was dancing in different parts of Europe- France, Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Switzerland and England. If the word ‘Mohiniattam' is known to some in Europe, It is all because of the effort put in by Shireen. The credit of popularising and propagating Indian Classical dance and music in the European countries, undeniably, goes to her. Shireen has been one of the pioneers Promoting the best of Indian artistes in Europe. In her list of artistes are some great ones Like Ravi Shankar, Lakshmi Shankar, Bismillah Khan, Parveen Sultana, Malvika Sarukkai, Rohinton Cama And many more. I was lucky to have her as my Impressario. We worked together almost till The end of the 20th century. The last tour was in 1997, When my daughter and I danced together Touring England in celebration of India's 50 years of Independence. But the
poetry readings have to be some of the saddest damned things ever, the gathering of the clansmen and clanladies, week after week, month after month, year after year, getting old together, reading on to tiny gatherings, still hoping their genius will be discovered, making tapes together, discs together, sweating for applause they read basically to and for each other, they can't find a New York publisher or one within miles, but they read on and on in the poetry holes of America, never daunted, never considering the possibility that their talent might be thin, almost invisible, they read on and on before their mothers, their sisters, their husbands, their wives, their friends, the other poets and the handful of idiots who have wandered in from nowhere. I am ashamed for them, I am ashamed that they have to bolster each other, I am ashamed for their lisping egos, their lack of guts. if these are our creators, please, please give me something else: a drunken plumber at a bowling alley, a prelim boy in a four rounder, a jock guiding his horse through along the rail, a bartender on last call, a waitress pouring me a coffee, a drunk sleeping in a deserted doorway, a dog munching a dry bone, an elephant's fart in a circus tent, a 6 p.m. freeway crush, the mailman telling a dirty joke anything anything but these.
There he is like the ocean Holding an empty shell Empty shell filled with God's food That every lovable things on earth would live a day more to taste. It's not the food you eat has love It's not love you have is adored Palate of life We mix it with pain and pleasure. Tears, sweat, blood… all ooze out from the vein of Hard work… How can things unseen and invisible Can be so true Can be so rooted here I see this beautiful earth everything merged through these invisible forces like a blind man see the colours of life and weave his own colour… red through green, green through blue burns the angst for not being able to see… but creates these are the colours he creates… and lay before us the senses to feel… Blooming into every man's beauty Farer man sing evening songs We wait for another morning… I licked through the plate of food Gulping down my thirst and hunger Just like a hungry begging human on street I lived for the food that comes from some distant land And an unknown lover make it And an unknown lover taste it A fistful of food… Opens her empty hands She lives She learns to live She learns to eat The passion of eating through What I yearn to see one day Your hands feeding a hungry mother In the corner of a silenced street. Cuddling the child of love Heals a mother's womb wounded by
They say the years from one to five, when tiny tots become alive, li'l professors they are, really as they take in and store so freely an overload of information, as if by heaven-sent dictation. Those years of active acquisition are followed by the earnest mission of teachers in the local school who teach even the dumbest fool. And, if you want to know the reason why some of us learn out of season, continue to obtain the goods about the why's and what's and should's, in playgrounds and on dusty streets. It's when your hungry, blue eye meets that of the teacher to connect. In a split second a direct and lasting bond is herewith born. And from that moment you are torn between the world and your first love when she regards you from above. But if no spark arises there the two of you will never share a common path through those first years, and when your graduation nears, you'll say good bye with no regret, as cool as on the day you met. For those who do feel adoration, in early years a fair sensation, you will increase your own IQ because you understand the true sweet essence of your little mind. You learn to count, to write and find that teacher's eyes are your reward. When other pupils do act bored you whip your mental faculties for one good reason, it's to please the one who does appreciate your intellect in a debate. You learn
We've lived for forty years, dear wife, And walked together side by side, And you to-day are just as dear As when you were my bride. I've tried to make life glad for you, One long, sweet honeymoon of joy, A dream of marital content, Without the least alloy. I've smoothed all boulders from our path, That we in peace might toil along, By always hastening to admit That I was right and you were wrong. No mad diversity of creed Has ever sundered me from thee; For I permit you evermore To borrow your ideas of me. And thus it is, through weal or woe, Our love forevermore endures; For I permit that you should take My views and creeds, and make them yours. And thus I let you have my way, And thus in peace we toil along, For I am willing to admit That I am right and you are wrong. And when our matrimonial skiff Strikes snags in love's meandering stream, I lift our shallop from the rocks, And float as in a placid dream. And well I know our marriage bliss While life shall last will never cease; For I shall always let thee do, In generous love, just what I please. Peace comes, and discord flies away, Love's bright day follows hatred's night; For I am ready to admit That you are wrong and I am right.
Are you just a tub of lard and Vastly overweight? Do you think that when you die you'll Need a piano crate To act as coffin for your frame? - Chosen as you die in shame, with Only you to take the blame For years of eating much the same: A daily calorific fest Gourmands of your ilk digest! Is your heart in final fling and Nearly set to burst? Are your arteries bunged and clogged and Feeling now the worst For wear? - your aneurysm fit to blow While blood as thick as rising dough Cries 'Halt! ' to any hope of flow: A dreadful state to put on show In front of any nurse! Best you hail a hearse. Copyright Mark R Slaughter 2009 < br> < br> Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood! Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
It's mighty lonesome-like and drear. Above the Wild the moon rides high, And shows up sharp and needle-clear The emptiness of earth and sky; No happy homes with love a-glow; No Santa Claus to make believe: Just snow and snow, and then more snow; It's Christmas Eve, it's Christmas Eve. And here am I where all things end, And Undesirables are hurled; A poor old man without a friend, Forgot and dead to all the world; Clean out of sight and out of mind . . . Well, maybe it is better so; We all in life our level find, And mine, I guess, is pretty low. Yet as I sit with pipe alight Beside the cabin-fir take to-night The backward trail of fifty year. The school-house and the Christmas tree; The children with their cheeks a-glow; Two bright blue eyes that smile on me . . . Just half a century ago. Again (it's maybe forty years), With faith and trust almost divine, These same blue eyes, abrim with tears, Through depths of love look into mine. A parting, tender, soft and low, With arms that cling and lips that cleave . . . Ah me! it's all so long ago, Yet seems so sweet this Christmas Eve. Just thirty years ago, again . . . We say a bitter, last good-bye; Our lips are white with wrath and pain; Our little children cling and cry. Whose was the fault? it matters not, For man and woman both deceive;
GOOD Father John O'Hart In penal days rode out To a Shoneen who had free lands And his own snipe and trout. In trust took he John's lands; Sleiveens were all his race; And he gave them as dowers to his daughters. And they married beyond their place. But Father John went up, And Father John went down; And he wore small holes in his Shoes, And he wore large holes in his gown. All loved him, only the shoneen, Whom the devils have by the hair, From the wives, and the cats, and the children, To the birds in the white of the air. The birds, for he opened their cages As he went up and down; And he said with a smile, 'Have peace now'; And he went his way with a frown. But if when anyone died Came keeners hoarser than rooks, He bade them give over their keening; For he was a man of books. And these were the works of John, When, weeping score by score, People came into Colooney; For he'd died at ninety-four. There was no human keening; The birds from Knocknarea And the world round Knocknashee Came keening in that day. The young birds and old birds Came flying, heavy and sad; Keening in from Tiraragh, Keening from Ballinafad; Keening from Inishmurray. Nor stayed for bite or sup; This way were all reproved Who dig old customs up.
I I see the boys of summer in their ruin Lay the gold tithings barren, Setting no store by harvest, freeze the soils; Theire in their heat the winter floods Of frozen loves they fetch their girls, And drown the cargoed apples in their tides. These boys of light are curdlers in their folly, Sour the boiling honey; The jacks of frost they finger in the hives; There in the sun the frigid threads Of doubt and dark they feed their nerves; The signal moon is zero in their voids. I see the summer children in their mothers Split up the brawned womb's weathers, Divide the night and day with fairy thumbs; There in the deep with quartered shades Of sun and moon they paint their dams As sunlight paints the shelling of their heads. I see that from these boys shall men of nothing Stature by seedy shifting, Or lame the air with leaping from its hearts; There from their hearts the dogdayed pulse Of love and light bursts in their throats. O see the pulse of summer in the ice. II But seasons must be challenged or they totter Into a chiming quarter Where, punctual as death, we ring the stars; There, in his night, the black-tongued bells The sleepy man of winter pulls, Nor blows back moon-and-midnight as she blows. We are the dark deniers, let us summon Death from a summer woman, A muscling life from lovers in their cramp, From the fair dead who flush
One Sunday morning I hurried on my way And I arrived at my church ready to worship and pray Then I saw a girl with blue-green hair She walked away, not welcome there I could see the tears falling down her face I realized that I didn’t want to be in such a place I looked at myself in my dress so neat And then at the girl in her jeans and dusty bare feet “Don’t be sad because you were turned away We’ll find us a church where we both can stay” With a smile on my face, I took her hand And we both walked away from my church so grand Soon a small wooden building I chanced to see A young man smiled and greeted both her and me The doors I saw were thrown open wide “There’s a place for you both just right inside” So many different people all worshipping the Lord And the truth being preached straight from His Word A place was found for us side by side Welcomed by His love that we often hide Let all church doors be thrown open wide And all who approach be welcomed inside Whether it be a woman with a refined air Or a barefoot girl with blue-green hair
He took a frayed hat from his head, And “Peace on Earth” was what he said. “A morsel out of what you’re worth, And there we have it: Peace on Earth. Not much, although a little more Than what there was on earth before I’m as you see, I’m Ichabod,— But never mind the ways I’ve trod; I’m sober now, so help me God.” I could not pass the fellow by. “Do you believe in God?” said I; “And is there to be Peace on Earth?” “Tonight we celebrate the birth,” He said, “of One who died for men; The Son of God, we say. What then? Your God, or mine? I’d make you laugh Were I to tell you even half That I have learned of mine today Where yours would hardly seem to stay. Could He but follow in and out Some anthropoids I know about, The god to whom you may have prayed Might see a world He never made.” “Your words are flowing full,” said I; “But yet they give me no reply; Your fountain might as well be dry.” “A wiser One than you, my friend, Would wait and hear me to the end; And for his eyes a light would shine Through this unpleasant shell of mine That in your fancy makes of me A Christmas curiosity. All right, I might be worse than that; And you might now be lying flat; I might have done it from behind, And taken what there was
Now is the time for mirth, Nor cheek or tongue be dumb; For with the flow'ry earth The golden pomp is come. The golden pomp is come; For now each tree does wear, Made of her pap and gum, Rich beads of amber here. Now reigns the rose, and now Th' Arabian dew besmears My uncontrolled brow And my retorted hairs. Homer, this health to thee, In sack of such a kind That it would make thee see Though thou wert ne'er so blind. Next, Virgil I'll call forth To pledge this second health In wine, whose each cup's worth An Indian commonwealth. A goblet next I'll drink To Ovid, and suppose, Made he the pledge, he'd think The world had all one nose. Then this immensive cup Of aromatic wine, Catullus, I quaff up To that terse muse of thine. Wild I am now with heat; O Bacchus! cool thy rays! Or frantic, I shall eat Thy thyrse, and bite the bays. Round, round the roof does run; And being ravish'd thus, Come, I will drink a tun To my Propertius. Now, to Tibullus, next, This flood I drink to thee; But stay, I see a text That this presents to me. Behold, Tibullus lies Here burnt, whose small return Of ashes scarce suffice To fill a little urn. Trust to good verses then; They only will aspire, When pyramids, as men, Are lost i' th' funeral fire. And when all bodies meet, In Lethe to be drown'd, Then
Father I come to you with open arms, wanting to feel your spirit. Place my feet on Holy ground, open my ears to hear your glorious sound. Open my eyes so I will see, take wasted fear away from me. Father give me the hope I need to survive, allow me many years to stay alive. Father you are the one I truly love, please send me your blessings from above. Father walk with me, see me through, I’ll always keep my trust in you. Forgive me Father you know I’ve sinned, a little tap perhaps upon my chin. Father I’ve listened to those with false charm, placing myself in the way of harm. Thank you for being in the midst, with open arms and a Heavenly kiss. Father when the night is lonely and the tears come through, I desperately need to think of you. Please take away all the strife, allow me to enjoy my life. Father when I’m weak and meet many a stumbling block and can’t make sense of here nor there, then take me Father, far away, so I may start a brand new day. Father I ask this prayer in the name of your son “Jesus Christ” our living Savior, sweet, sweet Jesus. Written: Oct.6,2007
Break off! Dance no more! Danger is at the door. Music is in arms. To signal war's alarms. Hark, a sudden trumpet calling Over the hill! Why are you calling, trumpet, calling? What is your will? Men, men, men ! Men who are ready to fight For their country's life, and the right Of a liberty-loving land to be Free, free, free! Free from a tyrant's chain, Free from dishonor's stain, Free to guard and maintain All that her fathers fought for, All that her sons have wrought for, Resolute, brave, and free! Call again, trumpet, call again, Call up the men! Do you hear the storm of cheers Mingled with the women's tears And the tramp, tramp, tramp of marching feet? Do you hear the throbbing drum As the hosts of battle come Keeping time, time, time to its beat? O Music give a song To make their spirit strong For the fury of the tempest they must meet. The hoarse roar Of the monster guns; And the sharp bark Of the lesser guns; The whine of the shells, The rifles' clatter Where the bullets patter, The rattle, rattle, rattle Of the mitrailleuse in battle, And the yells Of the men who charge through hells Where the poison gas descends, And the bursting shrapnel rends Limb from limb In the dim Chaos and clamor of the strife Where no man thinks of his life But only of fighting through, Blindly fighting through, through! 'Tis done At last! The victory
As I look from the isle, o'er its billows of green, To the billows of foam-crested blue, Yon bark, that afar in the distance is seen, Half dreaming, my eyes will pursue: Now dark in the shadow, she scatters the spray As the chaff in the stroke of the flail; Now white as the sea-gull, she flies on her way, The sun gleaming bright on her sail. Yet her pilot is thinking of dangers to shun,-- Of breakers that whiten and roar; How little he cares, if in shadow or sun They see him who gaze from the shore! He looks to the beacon that looms from the reef, To the rock that is under his lee, As he drifts on the blast, like a wind-wafted leaf, O'er the gulfs of the desolate sea. Thus drifting afar to the dim-vaulted caves Where life and its ventures are laid, The dreamers who gaze while we battle the waves May see us in sunshine or shade; Yet true to our course, though the shadows grow dark, We'll trim our broad sail as before, And stand by the rudder that governs the bark, Nor ask how we look from the shore!
I kissed Rose right back like that, without sorrow, and a pat on the back showing on the right track was my rapid attack I received on the morrow: - so why would she pack and the taxi fare borrow? 3 August 1991 Coppers Killed Me Coppers killed me when we met, jumping on the tube I sat in; Magistrate, who loves to get treats into your list, put that in! Say I fought the terror fad, say that “conscience clear” describes me, say you’re growing old, don’t add, - Coppers missed me! Coppers killed me when we met, hitting on the seat I sat in; Acting circumstantial bet eight hits, three misses, put that in! Say I sought no terror fad, say that “from bombs free” describes me, say I’m growing cold, don’t add, - Coppers killed me! ../.. Error wracks me today, terror tracks you tomorrow, let it be as it may, pain from plain clothes turned grey. Should tomorrow replay such a savour of sorrow: - what for you, safe today, - is in store for tomorrow? I could never fire back like that, without sorrow, and eight bullets through back showed after attack on the Stockwell tube track. The report on the morrow: - was on the wrong tack did from fantasy borrow! Terror slew me today, error you risk tomorrow! Violence came into play which my life did waylay - do you share the dismay at what might come tomorrow? There’ll be devil to pay
They put a leather belt around her 13 feet of tape and bound her Handcuffs to secure her And only God knows what else, She's illegal, so deport her Said the Empire that brought her She died, Nobody killed her And she never killed herself. It is our job to make her Return to Jamaica Said the Alien Deporters Who deports people like me, It was said she had a warning That the officers were calling On that deadly July morning As her young son watched TV. An officer unplugged the phone Mother and child were now alone When all they wanted was a home A child watch Mummy die, No matter what the law may say A mother should not die this way Let human rights come into play And to everyone apply. I know not of a perfect race I know not of a perfect place I know this is not a simple case Of Yardies on the move, We must talk some Race Relations With the folks from immigration About this kind of deportation If things are to improve. Let it go down in history The word is that officially She died democratically In 13 feet of tape, That Christian was over here Because pirates were over there The Bible sent us everywhere To make Great Britain great. Here lies the extradition squad And we should all now pray to God That as they go about their job They make not one mistake, For I fear as
It was my thirtieth year to heaven Woke to my hearing from harbour and neighbour wood And the mussel pooled and the heron Priested shore The morning beckon With water praying and call of seagull and rook And the knock of sailing boats on the net webbed wall Myself to set foot That second In the still sleeping town and set forth. My birthday began with the water- Birds and the birds of the winged trees flying my name Above the farms and the white horses And I rose In rainy autumn And walked abroad in a shower of all my days. High tide and the heron dived when I took the road Over the border And the gates Of the town closed as the town awoke. A springful of larks in a rolling Cloud and the roadside bushes brimming with whistling Blackbirds and the sun of October Summery On the hill's shoulder, Here were fond climates and sweet singers suddenly Come in the morning where I wandered and listened To the rain wringing Wind blow cold In the wood faraway under me. Pale rain over the dwindling harbour And over the sea wet church the size of a snail With its horns through mist and the castle Brown as owls But all the gardens Of spring and summer were blooming in the tall tales Beyond the border and under the lark full cloud. There could I marvel My birthday Away but the weather turned around. It turned away from
We have no special identity but are one It is accepted and denied by none Still we involve and cross Create the hurdles across Forget the humanity So much thrust for hostility Shall we pray for fine out come? Under one shed all are welcome Blood is always thick and red W are made to believe and fed All untruths about worldly affairs Nothing stands for good as fair Shall we not abide by Divine dictates? Does it not stand for anything good to indicate? We still keep our selves in blind condition Don’t miss any chance for providing ignition Nothing prevents us from doing the good It must be seen and clearly understood We may be left behind in isolation If we don’t keep up in tune or with relation It moves on as per schedule There is no prepared module It may go on endlessly We need not bother and go after it needlessly It is reprieve from Him and very temporary We must adhere to certain things and it is necessary The life is precious and must be taken care of It may not help you any time even if you cry wolf Love to spend it in descent way and manner At the end you will definitely be the gainer It is natural law that every action has got reaction There will be suitable reward for good action Nothing goes unnoticed or unheeded His blessings are always needed We may not be able to move a
You give to me hope And help me to cope When life pulls me down You bring me around You teach me to care And help me to share You make me honest With kindness the best From you I learned love With grace from above It's for you I live And I want to give You are the reason That fills each season When I hear love I think of you You are my world and best friend too I love you because you are so kind, thoughtful and caring I love you because you are so pleasant, lovely and sharing You made me the man I am Thank you © 2012 < br> love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
Ma pauvre muse, hélas! qu'as-tu donc ce matin? Tes yeux creux sont peuplés de visions nocturnes, Et je vois tour à tour réfléchis sur ton teint La folie et l'horreur, froides et taciturnes. Le succube verdâtre et le rose lutin T'ont-ils versé la peur et l'amour de leurs urnes? Le cauchemar, d'un poing despotique et mutin T'a-t-il noyée au fond d'un fabuleux Minturnes? Je voudrais qu'exhalant l'odeur de la santé Ton sein de pensers forts fût toujours fréquenté, Et que ton sang chrétien coulât à flots rythmiques, Comme les sons nombreux des syllabes antiques, Où règnent tour à tour le père des chansons, Phoebus, et le grand Pan, le seigneur des moissons. The Sick Muse My poor Muse, alas! what ails you today? Your hollow eyes are full of nocturnal visions; I see in turn reflected on your face Horror and madness, cold and taciturn. Have the green succubus, the rosy elf, Poured out for you love and fear from their urns? Has the hand of Nightmare, cruel and despotic, Plunged you to the bottom of some weird Minturnae? I would that your bosom, fragrant with health, Were constantly the dwelling place of noble thoughts, And that your Christian blood would flow in rhythmic waves Like the measured sounds of ancient verse, Over which reign in turn the father of all songs, Phoebus, and the great Pan, lord of harvest. — Translated by William Aggeler The Sick Muse Alas, poor Muse, what ails you so today? Your hollow eyes with
When your rationale for going to war turns out to be false, claim that you would have gone to war anyway. If critics question your rationale, label them liberals and question their patriotism. When one of your aides is found to have been particularly vocal about the nonexistent threat, promote her to Secretary of State. When poor intelligence leads you into war, award a medal of honor to the intelligence chief. When one of your aides is found to have provided written support for torturing prisoners of war, promote him to Attorney General. (Also claim that they were not technically “prisoners of war, ” so you can treat them however you want.) Ignore important global institutions in order to teach your enemy that he cannot ignore important global institutions. If critics question this hypocrisy, claim that they are supporting the enemy leader. Make sure you have allies in your war so that you can call the troops “coalition forces, ” even if 95% of the “allies” are offering only token troops. If critics question whether you have a true coalition, claim that the critics are besmirching the good names of those allied countries. If your major allies refuse to join you in the war, ridicule them, boycott them, call them old-fashioned, and claim that they have ulterior motives. But be sure to praise them when you crawl back to them to ask for money to help pay for rebuilding. When the war is becoming far more expensive than anticipated, point
O ME, man of slack faith so long! Standing aloof--denying portions so long; Only aware to-day of compact, all-diffused truth; Discovering to-day there is no lie, or form of lie, and can be none, but grows as inevitably upon itself as the truth does upon itself, Or as any law of the earth, or any natural production of the earth does. (This is curious, and may not be realized immediately--But it must be realized; I feel in myself that I represent falsehoods equally with the rest, And that the universe does.) Where has fail'd a perfect return, indifferent of lies or the truth? Is it upon the ground, or in water or fire? or in the spirit of man? or in the meat and blood? 10 Meditating among liars, and retreating sternly into myself, I see that there are really no liars or lies after all, And that nothing fails its perfect return--And that what are called lies are perfect returns, And that each thing exactly represents itself, and what has preceded it, And that the truth includes all, and is compact, just as much as space is compact, And that there is no flaw or vacuum in the amount of the truth--but that all is truth without exception; And henceforth I will go celebrate anything I see or am, And sing and laugh, and deny nothing.
Deah Ladies, Let me wawn you, theah are feahful taimes to come, And a mos' ter-ific strugge is at hand; And we have no taime to speah If we wish to do ouah sheah To defend, like Joan of Awk, ouah native land. Foah a really fraightful monstah is preparing to devouah All that's uppab-clauss and propah and quaite naice; And if we should be behaind In the battle aye shall faind All ouah priveleges vanish in a traice. O, it makes me shuddah, ladies, when Ai ventuah to reflect On the ravages this mongstah contemplates. He will break up all ouah homes, And where'er the creatuah roams, We'll be sundered from ouah lawful Tory mates. We'll be tawn from ouah poah husbands in a most fe-rocious way, 0, deah ladies, can you realise ouah lot? For the monstah has his eye On the Sacred Marriage Tie; And he'll eat up all the babes we haven't got. And remembah, deahest ladies, all ouah comfort now depends On destroying this wild Socialistic beast. Ouah sassiety diversions Would be vulgah mob excursions If we pandered to the monstah in the least. He is bent on confiscating all the houses, land and wealth Of ouah husbands, and ouah brothahs, and ouah friends. He is jealous of his bettahs. And he calls ouah men-folk sweatahs, He'll do anything to gain his awful ends. He's vulgah and unchivalrous this feahful Labah thing. He is teaching all ouah servants to despise us. He would drag us
It seems the church is in a mess This fact is nothing new Each day she sees she’s growing less But what on earth’s to do? Allow my children air their views Let wisdom, take command –1Ti.4: 11 Take care that no one should confuse –Pr.18: 2 Who fail to understand A child’s soon bored, when nought’s to do They cry, when hurt or spurned –2Ti.2: 24 But quick to see when something’s new And show it, they’ve learned To hinder them, would be absurd –Mt.19: 14 Could cause a deep divide Could make them think, the truth they’ve heard Is better off to hide What are the needs of every child? How can their souls; be saved? What hinders them, from running wild? What makes them well behaved? The King of kings can see it well So down in black on white –1Co.14: 26 I wrote that ALL the saved should tell The gospel of His Light –Mt.28: 18-20 The truth’s not left to one alone –Ex.18: 17-26 Although ordained with oil Yet ALL may help the plough to hone –Pr.27: 17 And dig beneath the soil –1Co.9: 10 So silence not, true lips that speak Nor quench my Spirit’s flow –1Ti.5: 19 That you who come my face to seek In unity; can grow…
Dragged down to the ground with a shoulder out of place A man struggles all about, anguish carved into his face His attacker stands up, but only for a moment He takes this time out to notice his blood roaming A second later he feels a sharp pain in his back His attacker brought his knee down with all the force he had One, and two, and three times he fell Screaming each time like the damned souls of hell The man lay still, mind adrift in the wind Sees the smiling faces and him amidst his kin They reach out to him and he reaches in return Only to return to a fire that’s started to burn His attacker must’ve tired because it seemed like some time Since he felt any blows manhandling his spine He could be paralyzed, in any case He couldn’t just lie there and die His attacker stood at his head like one of prominence Spit on the man and asserted his pure dominance But suddenly dropped to the floor in agonizing pain The man had cut a tendon and a very lively vein Blade in hand and moving as fast as stone The man crept to his attacker and brought the point home Over and over as his eyes filled with tears Collapsed on his attacker and let go of his shears Barely breathing but alive he can hear the fans cheer
Sometimes I walk without seeing Sometimes I see without knowing, Sometimes I live without learning And sometimes I learn without showing. And sometimes I pay no attention To what lies on the road ahead, And sometimes I just rush in Where the angels fear to tread. Sometimes I listen real well To words that my soul speaks, And sometimes I dont hear reason When my heart is feeling weak. Sometimes when it rains I see the sound that it makes, And sometimes it floods my heart Because of my mistakes. And sometimes when it snows I hear it's gentle sound, As it falls like silent thunder Everywhere upon the ground. And sometimes when I see you I think I'm really seeing me, Because sometimes life's not really All it would seem to be. Sometimes instead it's all gone Sort of topsy turvey, And sometimes right or wrong Is not as clear as day. Sometimes it all gets muddled From black and white to gray, And sometimes that path to righteousness Just doesn't lead the way. Then sometimes before I know it I find me standing in the light, Because sometimes when I get lost You're there to set me right. And sometimes when I think That all in my life is gone I look and see you standing Waiting there within the dawn. And sometimes when I'm feeling That I'm running out of time, You're love helps me see That I can run to you sometimes........ And sometimes you will
Shall the great soul of Newton quit this earth, To mingle with his stars; and every muse, Astonish'd into silence, shun the weight Of honours due to his illustrious name? But what can man?--Even now the sons of light, In strains high-warbled to seraphic lyre, Hail his arrival on the coast of bliss. Yet am not I deterr'd, though high the theme, And sung to harps of angels, for with you, Ethereal flames! ambitious, I aspire In Nature's general symphony to join. And what new wonders can ye show your guest! Who, while on this dim spot, where mortals toil Clouded in dust, from motion's simple laws, Could trace the secret hand of Providence, Wide-working through this universal frame. Have ye not listen'd while he bound the suns And planets to their spheres! th' unequal task Of humankind till then. Oft had they roll'd O'er erring man the year, and oft disgrac'd The pride of schools, before their course was known Full in its causes and effects to him, All-piercing sage! who sat not down and dream'd Romantic schemes, defended by the din Of specious words, and tyranny of names; But, bidding his amazing mind attend, And with heroic patience years on years Deep-searching, saw at last the system dawn, And shine, of all his race, on him alone. What were his raptures then! how pure! how strong! And what the triumphs of old Greece and Rome, By his diminish'd, but the pride of boys In some small fray victorious!
I always feel disappointed when of racism I read And when I read of it in Ireland I feel very sad indeed For racism in society should never have a place And people should never be judged on their colour or their race. As the Land of saints and scholars Ireland was known Worldwide And the Irish people suffered and their rights to them denied But the Irish in their sense of fair play could take a certain pride And for their human rights and liberty the sons of Ireland died. Poor migrants from Romania their possessions weigh light To live and work in Ireland do they not have the right? They may come un-invited but their numbers only small And the Irish too are migrants as history will recall. I read it's the Irish media that fans racism's flame If this be so of their bad work they must feel a great shame They cannot say in years to come the fault was never ours When they first used the noxious spray that poisoned all the flowers. I am an Irish migrant far from my native shore And others treat me with respect than that one could not ask for more A fair go for all people and for everyone fair play Those words from centuries ago are relevant today.
Far away in the twilight time Of every people, in every clime, Dragons and griffins and monsters dire, Born of water, and air, and fire, Or nursed, like the Python, in the mud And ooze of the old Deucalion flood, Crawl and wriggle and foam with rage, Through dusk tradition and ballad age. So from the childhood of Newbury town And its time of fable the tale comes down Of a terror which haunted bush and brake, The Amphisbaena, the Double Snake! Thou who makest the tale thy mirth, Consider that strip of Christian earth On the desolate shore of a sailless sea, Full of terror and mystery, Half redeemed from the evil hold Of the wood so dreary, and dark, and old, Which drank with its lips of leaves the dew When Time was young, and the world was new, And wove its shadows with sun and moon, Ere the stones of Cheops were squared and hewn. Think of the sea's dread monotone, Of the mournful wail from the pine-wood blown, Of the strange, vast splendors that lit the North, Of the troubled throes of the quaking earth, And the dismal tales the Indian told, Till the settler's heart at his hearth grew cold, And he shrank from the tawny wizard boasts, And the hovering shadows seemed full of ghosts, And above, below, and on every side, The fear of his creed seemed verified;- And think, if his lot were now thine own, To grope with terrors nor named
Weary not of us, for we are very beautiful; it is out of very jealousy and proper pride that we entered the veil. On the day when we cast of the body’s veil from the soul, you will see that we are the envy of despair of man and the Polestars. Wash your face and become clean for beholding us, else remain afar, for we are beloveds of ourselves. We are not that beauty who tomorrow will become a crone; till eternity we are young and heart-comforting and fair of stature. If that veil become worn out, the beauty has not grown old; the life of the Veil is transient, and we are boundless life. When Eblis saw the veil of Adam, he refused; Adam called to him, “You are the rejected one, not I.” The rest of the angels fell down prostrate, saying as they bowed themselves, “We have encountered a beauty: “Beneath the veil is an idol who by his qualities robbed us of reason, and we, prostrate, fell.” If our reason does not know the forms of the foul old men from those of the beauties, we are apostates from love. What place is there for a beauty? For he is the Lion of God. Like a child we prattled, for we are children of the alphabet. Children are beguiled with nuts and raisins, else, how are we meet for nuts and sesame-grains? When an old woman is hidden in helmet and chainmail, she says, “I am
This red hush toppling over the sky, Wanders one step toward the stars And dies in a questioning shiver. The steel-mill chimneys fling their gaunt seeking A little distance into the red That softly combs their smoky hair. The steel-mill chimneys only live at night When crimson light makes love to them And star-light trickles through the red, Like glimpses of some far-off fairy tale. Throughout the day the steel-mill chimneys stand Rigidly within the wind-whirled glare: Only night can bring them supple straightness. II From the little, brown gate that does not see them Because its eyes are blind with wooing soot, An endless stream of men scatters out Into the cool bewilderment of morning. Upon their lips a limply child-like surrender Curves out to the light, as though they felt The presence of an unassuming strangeness. The morning hides from their eyes: They walk on, in great strides, Like blind men swinging over a well-known scene. Their faces twitch with echoes of iron fists: Their faces hold a swarthy stupor Loosened by little fingers of morning light Until it droops into reluctant life. And then their eyes, made flat by night, Swell into a Madonna-like surprise At children trooping back in huge disguise. the oranges in lunch-room windows change To sleek suns dipped in sleepy light, And rounded tarts in china plates Are like red heart-beats, resting but not dead. A trolley-car speeds by And seems a strident lyric of motion. Wagons rumble down the street Like drums
Gentle divinity, how have I merited? Whither, unfortunate wretch, have I strayed, Thus of thy bounty to lie disenherited - I alone whilst every other is paid? Sleeping are cattle and birds without number, Beasts of the wilderness rest in their lair; Even the hills, as if weary, feign slumber, Even the torment sighs soft in the air. Lulled are the shuttering waves of the ocean, Seas in the lap of the land lie at peace. Only for me in monotonous motion Day follows day, and there comes no release. Moonlight & starlight & light of the morning Seven times flit o'er my feverish cheek. Once again Dawn's chilly hand offers warning. Whither, oh whither for rest shall I seek? Had I the eyes of an Argus, nor heeded Ever to keep my whole body awake - Half of the sentries alone being needed - Still I could never my slumber-thirst slake. Yet - if there's one in the arms of a lover Scornful of sleep and the joy that sleep brings, Come thou to me! I'll not ask thee to cover My eyes with the fullest extant of thy wings Happier suitors may sue for such blessing, I'll beg a touch, be it ever so slight, Of thy wand, or a whisk of thy garment caressing My eyelids to droop as it crosses the night.
And where is that poem I sensed in sleep? It may be caught within a swirling wind and cannot come to rest, or trapped in the crevice where two huge boulders lean and cannot break free, or it may need its deep sleep, stretched out on dry grass. The poem has its own life, it certainly knows the hour of its birth, and will arrive propelled by rhythms of mind and nature in tandem. Its impulse is always toward revelation. I wonder what impulse drives me: Do I walk these grasslands and climb these hills to provoke the poems whose writing is my familiar fulfillment? Or do I write poems to justify my ceaseless walking to no discernible goal? Will it matter if I find today's poem barely floating on the green slime of a stagnant pond? Will it be improved if I find it crowned with solar glory on the high ledge above a river valley? The poem will ever be the middle ground between Nature and myself. And so all things occur in their immediate motions - grasses, hills, sunlight, my self, the animals, the unwritten poems, plants and flowers and the life-pregnant soil, the waters and the swirling air. All fold together despite their strangeness, their separateness. And I, the poet of this moment, imagine how a natural love makes them familiars, and dream it can last for evermore... Oh, blessed persuasion! The poem is even now within my ken! I can be quiet now. It comes
Wander not dear- blow with the fair breeze & fly the high seas, All the fretting & sulking stoked, to find an enduring harmony in me, Wander not into sounds that trick, with their spirited agonies, Come seize the day, for we shall speak in the melody, God meant for you & me. Look into my eyes; you shall reach the end of all your journeys, Place your hand over my beating heart, & find it surpass yours in all degrees, Like the butterfly, in a God endowed span, enjoys itself thoroughly, Seeking nothing from flower to flower, save the sweetest of honey, Live the joy & exuberance as God meant it, rest all must be memory, Like the sweetness cast by the meekest flower, on a winter day, on a bended knee. * * * Let the cuckoos sing their sweetest, Where lovers with a heavy heart rest, Let the winds blow their trumpets Where a lone candle burns in earnest. Let the stars burn their brightest, Let the darkest hour put them through the harshest test, Let the coy flowers wistful in sobs of dew throw a riot, In half shut eye, in half a dream reach their height. Let the sunbeams open vaults of lit treasures, And from each casement poet’s thought & sigh come together, Let the moon in amorous pursuits, In dew locks of the night, break into cold sweat. With too great a capacity for joy, When the world has little occasion for it.
When I got married I had a rubber lizzard that I had for a number of years. The lizzard looked and felt real. So I said, Tonight I'm gonna have a little fun with my honey bun. I slipped in bed and put the lizzard under the covers on her side of the bed. When I lay there in wait for the fun to begin. She came in and hopped in beside me and landed on that lizzard. She let out the awfulest blood curdling scream I ever heard.Then she started to cry. Then she screamed again. Then she cried some more. Then she finally got her breath. "O.K. You jerk. Take that lizzard and get out the door." I put the lizzard in my dresser drawer before I went out the door.I thought our marriage had come to an end. I promised her I'd never do that again. All the people in town told my wife that she had married a clown that would never settle down. I learned something that night when we had our first fight. If you treat your wife with respect and don't act like a jerk, your marriage is bound to work and she will even iron you shirts. You can't expect her to earn your living. You've got to get off your duff and earn some of that spending stuff. You may not have much money. But you will alwyas have your honey. Which is worth more than all the money. You've got
Only forty more sleeps and then Santa will come with the bells and the beeps and the presents for some. Only good kids will get what all good kids have earned so there's no need to fret where our tribe is concerned. Now the stockings are swaying near the chimney's old brick and the snowflakes are playing all in honour of Nick. It is bedtime and after but all riled are the boys we can hear their sweet laughter as they think about toys. They've turned on in a hurry their CB radios will they work in the flurry of the blizzard, who knows? They were talking on air to a deep and stern voice and with all-knowing flair over loud static noise, were discussing details as to when the big shipment with the things it entails thanks to proper equipment, would arrive then to fill all the stockings at last when the room became still, and young Greg yelled it fast: ' Hold your reindeers, St. Nick when you get here and use it is equally quick the front door, do not choose our old chimney today you will burn in the flames and our stockings will sway with no toys and no games.' Now you know the tradition of the stockings still works and each year it's his mission to stop by at those jerks who with timber and coal light their Christmas Eve fire from the distant North Pole comes the man we admire, and he slides
As through the wild green hills of Wyre The train ran, changing sky and shire, And far behind, a fading crest, Low in the forsaken west Sank the high-reared head of Clee, My hand lay empty on my knee. Aching on my knee it lay: That morning half a shire away So many an honest fellow's fist Had well-nigh wrung it from the wrist. Hand, said I, since now we part From fields and men we know by heart, For strangers' faces, strangers' lands,-- Hand, you have held true fellows' hands. Be clean then; rot before you do A thing they'll not believe of you. You and I must keep from shame In London streets the Shropshire name; On banks of Thames they must not say Severn breeds worse men than they; And friends abroad must bear in mind Friends at home they leave behind. Oh, I shall be stiff and cold When I forget you, hearts of gold; The land where I shall mind you not Is the land where all's forgot. And if my foot returns no more To Teme nor Corve nor Severn shore, Luck, my lads, be with you still By falling stream and standing hill, By chiming tower and whispering tree, Men that made a man of me. About your work in town and farm Still you'll keep my head from harm, Still you'll help me, hands that gave A grasp to friend me to the grave.
At first I thought she waltzed, but then I saw the error of my observation powers. She waddled, all that blubber, garnished with shoulder pads, covert suspenders and duct tape, size called 'infinity', a wave of air preceded the mass, mostly the temperature was high but in the noise of raucous laughter it was hard to tell what happened. Yes, men were at her feet, all over the dancing hall, though hardwood on a polished floor is without comfort. No one was able to keep standing, it was too much to grin and bear. Majestic gestures emanated, clearly, there was confusion as to the identity and origin, was this thing human then? And, in the end it was decided that it had been good to have this episode, though fleeting pay its short visit, although the most intriguing part about the thing, consisted of its skills to speak of things that human beings hold dear, some raunchy stuff included. And all were shocked, though pretty glad when hardwood planks did give and cracked, and Blubber sank to vanish through the hole, from where some devils must have grabbed to commandeer the energy, all the triglycerides, not food for thought but something quite substantial.
'Deny your God! ' they ringed me with their spears; Blood-crazed were they, and reeking from the strife; Hell-hot their hate, and venom-fanged their sneers, And one man spat on me and nursed a knife. And there was I, sore wounded and alone, I, the last living of my slaughtered band. Oh sinister the sky, and cold as stone! In one red laugh of horror reeled the land. And dazed and desperate I faced their spears, And like a flame out-leaped that naked knife, And like a serpent stung their bitter jeers: 'Deny your God, and we will give you life.' Deny my God! Oh life was very sweet! And it is hard in youth and hope to die; And there my comrades dear lay at my feet, And in that blear of blood soon must I lie. And yet... I almost laughed - it seemed so odd, For long and long had I not vainly tried To reason out and body forth my God, And prayed for light, and doubted - and denied: Denied the Being I could not conceive, Denied a life-to-be beyond the grave.... And now they ask me, who do not believe, Just to deny, to voice my doubt, to save This life of mine that sings so in the sun, The bloom of youth yet red upon my cheek, My only life! - O fools! 'tis easy done, I will deny... and yet I do not speak. 'Deny your God! ' their spears are all
Cheerful sound with big sound is called laugh You energy is consumed almost half Worries and tension disappear altogether It has nothing to do with any whether It is good medicine for incurable diseases Person suffers from pain and continues to decease Good laugh provides him easy means to live All worries and tension remain to be relieved Good laugh always pleases others It doesn’t affect others or bother It is considered as God’s gift It helps to remove even old rift Have you ever witnessed child’s smile? You continue to enjoy for a while Friendship may grow with smiling gesture It may end up with bright future You must try to live with laugh and learn You may be miles away from concern Laugh it out when you are in crisis Stretch it out more and lay an emphasis You are not to be driven out by any count Let there be any difficulties or pressure mount You may continue to live at ease Smile may help worries to decrease You may roar high in laughter Your heart beats may run even faster All vanes and brain may have fresh supply Body need may meet the level with good reply It is equally important for good health Nothing can compensate even more wealth So laugh even when it is not needed Medical advice may always be heeded Worry and tension burn body from within Chances for recovery are then very thin One must live by what he is supposed
To the Memory of the Household It Describes This Poem is Dedicated by the Author: "As the Spirits of Darkness be stronger in the dark, so Good Spirits,which be Angels of Light, are augmented not only by the Divine lightof the Sun, but also by our common Wood Fire: and as the CelestialFire drives away dark spirits, so also this our Fire of Wood doth thesame." -- Cor. Agrippa, Occult Philosophy, Book I.ch. v. "Announced by all the trumpets of the sky, Arrives the snow, and, driving o'er the fields, Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air Hides hills and woods, the river and the heaven, And veils the farm-house at the garden's end. The sled and traveller stopped, the courier's feet Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed In a tumultuous privacy of Storm." EMERSON, The Snow Storm. The sun that brief December day Rose cheerless over hills of gray, And, darkly circled, gave at noon A sadder light than waning moon. Slow tracing down the thickening sky Its mute and ominous prophecy, A portent seeming less than threat, It sank from sight before it set. A chill no coat, however stout, Of homespun stuff could quite shut out, A hard, dull bitterness of cold, That checked, mid-vein, the circling race Of life-blood in the sharpened face, The coming of the snow-storm told. The wind blew east; we heard the roar Of Ocean on his wintry shore, And felt the strong pulse throbbing
On a warm sultry night last August, I went to a rock concert featuring Liz Phair And several other female artists. A male friend of mine couldn’t go with me, But I didn’t really mind, I love music so much That I never want to talk or think about anything but the show. Once I was there, though, I ran into three female friends: Erica, Diana, and Soha! I was as nearly as exited to see them as Liz; If I had been a puppy, My little tail would have been Ecstatically wagging! I was in the front row and toward the end of the show, I reached my hand toward Liz Phair wanting To slightly touch her, but she placed a guitar pick Into my outstretched hand, I thought I might have a heart attack! My three friends were cheering me on like perfect angels! When the show was over, I walked out with my three friends. The concert was promoted by a makeup company, And they were giving out free packets of makeup. My three friends, all beautiful ladies, took one; Being right on their heels, I also took one. The woman handing out the makeup gave me a peculiar look, But I never thought about it, but Erica, being the most wonderfully Outspoken and lovely woman, asked me almost accusingly, “Are you going to use that, Uriah? ” Innocently I replied, “What is it? ” Soha joined in, “Eyeliner. Can I have it? ” I had never
AS one who having wandered all night long In a perplexed forest, comes at length In the first hours, about the matin song, And when the sun uprises in his strength, To the fringed margin of the wood, and sees, Gazing afar before him, many a mile Of falling country, many fields and trees, And cities and bright streams and far-off Ocean's smile: I, O Melampus, halting, stand at gaze: I, liberated, look abroad on life, Love, and distress, and dusty travelling ways, The steersman's helm, the surgeon's helpful knife, On the lone ploughman's earth-upturning share, The revelry of cities and the sound Of seas, and mountain-tops aloof in air, And of the circling earth the unsupported round: I, looking, wonder: I, intent, adore; And, O Melampus, reaching forth my hands In adoration, cry aloud and soar In spirit, high above the supine lands And the low caves of mortal things, and flee To the last fields of the universe untrod, Where is no man, nor any earth, nor sea, And the contented soul is all alone with God.
WITH a bridegroom's joyous bearing, Mounts Sir Curt his noble beast, To his mistress' home repairing, There to hold his wedding feast; When a threatening foe advances From a desert, rocky spot; For the fray they couch their lances, Not delaying, speaking not. Long the doubtful fight continues, Victory then for Curt declares; Conqueror, though with wearied sinews, Forward on his road he fares. When he sees, though strange it may be, Something 'midst the foliage move; 'Tis a mother, with her baby, Stealing softly through the grove! And upon the spot she beckons-- "Wherefore, love, this speed so wild? Of the wealth thy storehouse reckons, Hast thou nought to give thy child!" Flames of rapture now dart through him, And he longs for nothing more, While the mother seemeth to him Lovely as the maid of yore. But he hears his servants blowing, And bethinks him of his bride; And ere long, while onward going, Chances past a fair to ride; In the booths he forthwith buys him For his mistress many a pledge; But, alas! some Jews surprise him, And long-standing debts allege. And the courts of justice duly Send the knight to prison straight. Oh accursed story, truly! For a hero, what a fate! Can my patience such things weather? Great is my perplexity. Women, debts, and foes together,-- Ah, no knight escapes scot free!
Remember him, whom Passion's power Severely---deeply---vainly proved: Remember thou that dangerous hour, When neither fell, though both were loved. That yielding breast, that melting eye, Too much invited to be blessed: That gentle prayer, that pleading sigh, The wilder wish reproved, repressed. Oh! let me feel that all I lost But saved thee all that Conscience fears; And blush for every pang it cost To spare the vain remorse of years. Yet think of this when many a tongue, Whose busy accents whisper blame, Would do the heart that loved thee wrong, And brand a nearly blighted name. Think that, whate'er to others, thou Hast seen each selfish thought subdued: I bless thy purer soul even now, Even now, in midnight solitude. Oh, God! that we had met in time, Our hearts as fond, thy hand more free; When thou hadst loved without a crime, And I been less unworthy thee! Far may thy days, as heretofore, From this our gaudy world be past! And that too bitter moment o'er, Oh! may such trial be thy last. This heart, alas! perverted long, Itself destroyed might there destroy; To meet thee in the glittering throng, Would wake Presumption's hope of joy. Then to the things whose bliss or woe, Like mine, is wild and worthless all, That world resign---such scenes forego, Where those who feel must surely fall. Thy youth, thy charms, thy tenderness--- Thy soul from long seclusion pure; From what even here hath passed, may guess What there thy
Inky gear with million accessories The - Wisps of clouds Charismatic Moon And Celestial bodies. You dazzle like a jewel In the shinning carroty sun, You’re calm and poised When ornamented by the twinkling stars. ‘You’re the Sky’. Crystalline drops wetted with effervescence The - Ebbing and soaring waves Turbulence and tranquility Azure brilliance. I catch the morning light And sketch the rising sun on me. I shine, I glow and I feel beautiful When complimented by the sky. ‘I’m The Ocean’. I love it when you are in a mischievous mood It’s when you stir up a breeze - And play with me. I treasure and hold every pearly tear that you shed Happy or otherwise - And I consume it. I love it when you elevate the temperature It’s then that you evaporate me - And fly me to your abode. We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ - Eager to meet, Complimenting each other, Sharing Secrets, Seeming to kiss and embrace. We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ - Summiting at the horizon - Which is a mere apparition. We touch, But the touch dosen't reach Beyond our borders. (16 September 2006)
On the unbreathing sides of hills they play, a specklike girl and boy, alone, but near a specklike house. The Sun's suspended eye blinks casually, and then they wade gigantic waves of light and shade. A dancing yellow spot, a pup, attends them. Clouds are piling up; a storm piles up behind the house. The children play at digging holes. The ground is hard; they try to use one of their father's tools, a mattock with a broken haft the two of them can scarcely lift. It drops and clangs. Their laughter spreads effulgence in the thunderheads, Weak flashes of inquiry direct as is the puppy's bark. But to their little, soluble, unwarrantable ark, apparently the rain's reply consists of echolalia, and Mother's voice, ugly as sin, keeps calling to them to come in. Children, the threshold of the storm has slid beneath your muddy shoes; wet and beguiled, you stand among the mansions you may choose out of a bigger house than yours, whose lawfulness endures. It's soggy documents retain your rights in rooms of falling rain.
Well, mate, you’ve asked about a fellow You met to-day, in a black-and-yellow Chain-gang suit, with a peddler’s pack, Or with some such burden, strapped to his back. Did you meet him square? No, passed you by? Well, if you had, and had looked in his eye, You’d have felt for your irons then and there; For the light in his eye is a madman’s glare. Ay, mad, poor fellow! I know him well, And if you’re not sleepy just yet, I’ll tell His story,—a strange one as ever you heard Or read; but I’ll vouch for it, every word. You just wait a minute, mate: I must see How that damper’s doing, and make some tea. You smoke? That’s good; for there’s plenty of weed In that wallaby skin. Does your horse feed In the hobbles? Well, he’s got good feed here, And my own old bush mare won’t interfere. Done with that meat? Throw it there to the dogs, And fling on a couple of banksia logs. And now for the story. That man who goes Through the bush with the pack and the convict’s clothes Has been mad for years; but he does no harm, And our lonely settlers feel no alarm When they see or meet him. Poor Dave Sloane Was a settler once, and a friend of my own. Some eight years back, in the spring of the year, Dave came from Scotland, and settled here. A splendid young fellow he was just then, And
and right now, I’m spending most of my time on the two matters of which I seem to know the least – love; and poetry. maybe it’s good I feel like this; after all, they’re two pretty big things in their way; and if it’s frustrating that I don’t seem to get anywhere, or understand any more, maybe that’s good too since it keeps me at it and out of harm’s way as they say let’s take poetry first – that’s relatively straightforward: one day I love the freedom of the current situation – there’s no rules except, the lines are short – but even that, you can break with ‘prose poems’ (and leave it to others to say when 'prose poems' become ‘poetic prose’ etc…) : tell the unvarnished truth, tell it like it is; offer all your heart ungiftwrapped; then next day I miss the music of a poem that – with some difficulty – rhymes and dances in its rhythms, catches you in its woven spell, reads as if it wrote itself, sings its own fair song, even though of course the rhyme then makes you deviate from the theme – but that can take you to more interesting places in the mind — so - point of this - I’m none the wiser about what poetry is; though of course maybe there’s some benefit I just don’t spot by kinda mixing thisnthat.. so, when I’m not writing this stuff that I call poetry, if I call
At the end of six weeks I did spy A dawning of light in the southern sky Though it didn't last long It started a song As a blowing sound passed by For its warming wave Caused the artic to cave And move out to the world around As the north begins to warm The cold fronts start to form In a move to the south From the foul bear's mouth It's January's frontal storm The arctic air glides ‘til the bear subsides And moderation in temperatures abound nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
Fallen leaves come in That pretty Fall anywhere and Everywhere... Fallen snows come in That wonderful Winter anywhere and Everywhere... All pretty blossoms come in That great Spring anywhere and Everywhere... All pretty fruits come in That fabulous Summer anywhere and Everywhere... Four different seasons with Four different outcomes... All seasons produce what we need Just to make our life great and Pretty anytime, anywhere, and everywhere... This is the real seasons' weather forecast... _________________________________________________ _____________________
when justice fails because the constable has blundered do not be surprised, do not even be discouraged, proceed in procurring justice still with the way how you are trained to do so, get the fingerprints of your thoughts and present the same to those who doubt and wavered, show them the intricate lines of your own determinations this is how it must be done there is still a map of this destination, when justice fails because the judge and justices have also lost their sense what justice is and how it should be dispensed like a blindfolded lady that you misunderstand with her scales on one hand and a sword on the other, do not be shaken, do not lose hope, heave a sigh and breathe the remaining clean air, there are still those who in silence still remain steadfast holding on to truth and keeping their hands clean and hearts pure and minds active to the pursuit of this eternal approximation of fairness there are still those whose eyes still daze to the glitters not of gold but of truth, beauty, and goodness, i will count you in please count me in too and how about you? i ask, please be counted we shall stand on the good side of things we shall look for the brightest star the ideal from among the blunders in the darkness of our nights let the hammer fall and let it fall everyday let those in the dark side have their houses full
"What says the sea, little shell? What says the sea? Long has our brother been silent to us, Kept his message for the ships, Awkward ships, stupid ships." "The sea bids you mourn, O Pines, Sing low in the moonlight. He sends tale of the land of doom, Of place where endless falls A rain of women's tears, And men in grey robes -- Men in grey robes -- Chant the unknown pain." "What says the sea, little shell? What says the sea? Long has our brother been silent to us, Kept his message for the ships, Puny ships, silly ships." "The sea bids you teach, O Pines, Sing low in the moonlight; Teach the gold of patience, Cry gospel of gentle hands, Cry a brotherhood of hearts. The sea bids you teach, O Pines." "And where is the reward, little shell? What says the sea? Long has our brother been silent to us, Kept his message for the ships, Puny ships, silly ships." "No word says the sea, O Pines, No word says the sea. Long will your brother be silent to you, Keep his message for the ships, O puny pines, silly pines."
This is the house. On one side there is darkness, On one side there is light. Into the darkness you may lift your lanterns— O, any number—it will still be night. And here are echoing stairs to lead you downward To long sonorous halls. And here is spring forever at these windows, With roses on the walls. This is her room. On one side there is music— On one side not a sound. At one step she could move from love to silence, Feel myriad darkness coiling round. And here are balconies from which she heard you, Your steady footsteps on the stair. And here the glass in which she saw your shadow As she unbound her hair. Here is the room—with ghostly walls dissolving— The twilight room in which she called you 'lover'; And the floorless room in which she called you 'friend.' So many times, in doubt, she ran between them!— Through windy corridors of darkening end. Here she could stand with one dim light above her And hear far music, like a sea in caverns, Murmur away at hollowed walls of stone. And here, in a roofless room where it was raining, She bore the patient sorrow of rain alone. Your words were walls which suddenly froze around her. Your words were windows,—large enough for moonlight, Too small to let her through. Your letters—fragrant cloisters faint with music. The music that assuaged her there was you. How many times she heard your step ascending Yet never saw